Abstract Aims
C1q-tumor necrosis factor-related protein-3 (CTRP3) is an adipokine and a paralog of adiponectin. Our previous study showed that CTRP3 attenuated diabetes-related cardiomyopathy. However, the precise role of CTRP3 in cardiac hypertrophy remains unclear. This study was aimed to clarify the role of CTRP3 involved in cardiac hypertrophy Methods and results
Cardiomyocyte-specific CTRP3 overexpression was achieved using an adeno-associated virus system, and cardiac CTRP3 expression was knocked down using gene delivery of specific short hairpin RNAs in vivo. CTRP3 expression was upregulated in murine hypertrophic hearts and failing human hearts. Increased CTRP3 was mainly derived from cardiomyocytes and induced by the production of reactive oxygen species (ROS) during the hypertrophic response. CTRP3-overexpressing mice exhibited exacerbated cardiac hypertrophy and cardiac dysfunction in response to pressure overload. Conversely, Ctrp3 deficiency in the heart resulted in an alleviated hypertrophic phenotype. CTRP3 induced hypertrophy in cardiomyocytes, which could be blocked by the addition of CTRP3 antibody in the media. Detection of signaling pathways showed that pressure overload-induced activation of the transforming growth factor ?-activated kinase 1 (TAK1)-c-Jun N-terminal kinase (JNK) pathway was enhanced by CTRP3 overexpression and inhibited by CTRP3 disruption. Furthermore, we found that CTRP3 lost its pro-hypertrophic effects in cardiomyocyte-specific Tak1 knockout mice. Protein kinase A (PKA) was involved in the activation of TAK1 by CTRP3. Conclusion
In conclusion, our results suggest that CTRP3 promotes pressure overload-induced cardiac hypertrophy via activation of the TAK1-JNK axis. Heart failure , Hypertrophy , CTRP3 , TAK1 , JNK Published on behalf of the European Society of Cardiology. All rights reserved. © The Author(s) 2018. For permissions please email: journals.permissions@oup.com. This article is published and distributed under the terms of the Oxford University Press, Standard Journals Publication Model ( https://academic.oup.com/journals/pages/open_access/funder_policies/chorus/standard_publication_model ) Issue Section:
