Stormzy announced his Stormzy Scholarship with the University of Cambridge (Picture: WireImage) Stormzy recently made headlines after claiming Oxford University rejected his offer to fund two black British students’ scholarships to the University of Cambridge. However, a representative for the university has now denied the Big For Your Boots rapper’s claims, explaining they never spoke to him about his proposal.
A statement shared with Metro.co.uk read: ‘Oxford University is committed to widening access and participation for all students from under-represented backgrounds. We admire Stormzy’s commitment to inspire and support black students to succeed in higher education. ‘We have not received or turned down any offer or proposal to fund undergraduate scholarships at Oxford.’ They also revealed they would be open to working with the 25-year-old in the future, adding: ‘We have contacted to Stormzy’s representatives today to clarify we would welcome the opportunity to work together on inspiring students from African-Caribbean heritage to study at Oxford. The statement comes after Stormzy claimed he approached Oxford University to start up the scholarship, and went with the University of Cambridge when they weren’t interested.
Tonight at the Barbican Stormzy revealed that the much-discussed scholarship he’s funding at Cambridge Uni was first proposed to Oxford University, and they told him to get lost?! Incredible.
— dan hancox (@danhancox) November 7, 2018
Speaking at London’s Barbican, during the launch of his book, Rise Up: The #Merky Story So Far, the 25-year-old reportedly told the crowd: ‘We tried Oxford but they didn’t want to get involved.’ He also revealed the reason he decided to set up the scholarships in the first place – because he wanted to unlock the genius inside ‘badly behaved kids’. The Guardian states he said: ‘That is something I take personal pride in. I am always very inspired by that genius and … people who are smarter than me. ‘Now I am in this position I want to do something for them.’ Stormzy announced his initiative earlier this year (Picture: Rex) The Shut Up rapper was applauded after confirming his ‘Stormzy Scholarship’ earlier this year, which will pay for tuition fees and provide a maintenance grant for up to four years of an undergraduate course at Cambridge.
He is hoping more investors can eventually become part of the scheme, which will enable more lives to be changed. Discussing his initiative, he told BBC News: ‘It’s so important for black students, especially, to be aware that it can 100% be an option to attend a university of this calibre. ‘We’re a minority, the playing ground isn’t level for us and it’s vital that all potential students are given the same opportunity.’ As well as this, he has also created a publishing imprint, to help young writers become published authors. Is there nothing he won’t do to help? In a post on his Instagram page, the star explained: ‘Super proud to announce our new venture #Merky Books, a publishing imprint in collaboration with Penguin Random House @penguinukbooks We will be using this as a platform for young writers to become published authors. ‘I know too many talented writers that don’t always have an outlet or a means to get their work seen and hopefully #Merky Books can now be a reference point for them to say “I can be an author” and for that to be a realistic and achievable goal.
‘Reading and writing as a kid was integral to where I am today and I from the bottom of my heart can not wait to hear your stories, your poems, your novels, your sci-fis and then getting them out into the big wide world.’ MORE: SHOWBIZ Tamera Mowry confirms her niece Alaina Housley died in bar shooting Katie Price claims she was ‘harassed’ by man at Bluewater shopping centre Ben Affleck and Jennifer Garner’s divorce is officially finalised ‘without prenup’ He continued: ‘Proper proud of this! We’ll be doing school competitions, taking entries and submissions and looking for writers as well but I’ll keep you posted! #Merky Books will also be offering a paid internship in 2019! ‘The first book to be released under the imprint will be “Rise Up: The #Merky Journey So Far” out November 1st and available for pre order now (The link is in my bio!).’
Source: metro.co.uk
Photo Credit: Skywritingservice.com
