Home > DVDs , Written Reviews , Written Reviews >“Christopher Robin” Now on Blu-ray “Christopher Robin” Now on Blu-ray
Review by John Delia
Wonder if the hundred-acre wood were real and young Christopher Robin made it his playground. No animation or fuzzy drawings, but real life with cotton stuffed animals that Christopher uses to dream about in stores like Pooh Bear and his honey and Tigger and his springy tail. You know like when we were kids, and if a girl she placed dolls on her bed and had tea parties, and boys would use trains to make believe he’s taking a trip through a cardboard countryside. Well in the live action movie Christopher Robin , it becomes just that and it has as much heart as the animated cartoon that we as children loved and laughed. Now on Blu-ray, DVD and Digital HD the movie can come to life in your own living room.
In this film young Christopher Robin (Orton O’Brien) begins to grow up and visits Pooh and his friends in the wood. However, he’s at the age where his busy parents need to send him to boarding school. So it’s goodbye time to his pals and he sits down and says farewell to the bear, tiger, donkey and other stuffed animal friends that were his companions and with whom he had adventurers. Christopher Robin (Ewan McGregor) comes out of Pooh’s house in Disney’s Christopher Robin
Time passes quickly and we find Christopher Robin (Ewan McGregor) grown and with a family of his own. But times are hard with war in the winds and duty calls. Returning home from the fight he finds work in a luggage company, but with the unfortunate economy just around the corner, he has disappoint his family. Not far off, Pooh has made a decision to take a chance and leave the hundred acre wood though the tree that young Christopher came through. So begins an adventure that will reach out into the real world where Pooh Bear, Eeyore, Piglet and Tigger are just toys to humans, but a needed blast from the past to bring reality to the older Christopher Robin.
Director Marc Forster does a very good job presenting this innovative and loving storyline to his audience. By using the classic style characters in plush (Pooh, Tigger, Piglet, and Eeyore) he is able to add more emotions to this wonderful tale. The way he blends the real world with the imaginary hundred-acre wood (or is it imaginary?), makes the story become so alive. This remarkable story tells you a lot about how important your childhood is and that everyone should enjoy those memories from their youth. Bronte Carmichael in Disney’s Christopher Robin
The fine performances of the whole cast including Ewan McGregor as the adult Christopher Robin create a heartwarming throwback to the animated series. Under the director Forester, McGregor provides the realism, empathy, and the meaning of family both real and imaginary within the movie. He’s the perfect grown-up for his new family and the loving go between for his friends in the Hundred-acre wood.
Blu-ray Bonus Features:
“A Movie Is Made for Pooh” – Filmmakers and cast share their passion for this story in a behind-the-scenes look at the making of the movie. “Pooh and Friends Come to Life” – See how Winnie the Pooh and Friends were brought to life as walking and talking stuffed animals in this magical live-action world “Pooh Finds His Voice” – Discover what it’s like to voice Winnie the Pooh, from voice actors Sterling Holloway to Jim Cummings. “Pooh and Walt Become Friends” – How did Walt Disney and Pooh meet? Take a journey through time to explore the legacy of Walt’s first encounter with Pooh.
Exclusive Digital Bonus Feature:
“We Were Very Young” – Meet the actual, original teddy bear who, along with his best friends, has inspired so much love worldwide for almost a century.
Christopher Robin has been rated PG by the MPAA for some action, mild violence, some mild profanity, and mild frightening and Intense Scenes. You may want to watch the film before showing it to the very young so you can make a decision as to their ability to enjoy it.
FINAL ANALYSIS: Excellent on the big screen and at home. (5 out of 5 Stars)
Specifications and additional video information: Cast: Ewan McGregor, Hayley Atwell, Bronte Carmichael, Jim Cummings, Eeyore, Nick Mohammed, Peter Capaldi, Sophie Okonedo, Sara Sheen, and Toby Jones. Directed by: Marc Forster Genre: Animation, Adventure, Comedy, Drama, Family, Fantasy, and Musical. MPAA Rating: Rated PG for some action, mild violence, some mild profanity, and mild frightening and Intense Scenes. Running Time: 1 hour and 44 minutes Original Theatrical Release Date: August 3, 2018 Video Release Date: November 6, 2018 Language: English (changeable to English Descriptive Audio, French or Spanish Reviewed Format: Blu-ray Video: 1080p HD Widescreen, Aspect Ratio 2.39:1 Subtitles: Spanish, French Number of Discs: 2 discs plus Digital Code Distributed by: Buena Vista Home Entertainment Released Formats: Blu-ray, DVD, Digital HD
