Around the Nation: How Lady of Lourdes achieved one of the lowest 'sharps' injury rates in the US Bite-sized hospital and health industry news 7:00 AM - November 8, 2018 Facebook
The hospital's score for injuries stemming from sharp objects is less than half the national average score for teaching hospitals, in today's bite-sized hospital and health industry news from California, Michigan, and Pennsylvania. California : Stanford Hospital will open a new clinic for victims of sexual assault. The clinic was proposed after local rape crisis centers expressed a need for additional crisis centers in the area. The clinic will provide another place for patients to receive rape kit exams administered by specially trained nurses (Cook, Becker's Hospital Review , 11/5). Michigan : Kenneth Myers, former CEO of Beaumont Hospital , died last week at age 86. Myers, who was a leader at Beaumont for 30 years, was a member of the hospital's board of trustees and served as chair of the Michigan Hospital Association 's board. The obituary described Myers as "a born leader [who] inspired countless people throughout his lifetime" (Frank, Modern Healthcare , 11/6). Pennsylvania: Our Lady of Lourdes Medical Center is one of five teaching hospitals injury rates stemming from sharp objects that fall below the national average, according to a study by the Association of Occupational Health Professionals in Healthcare. Lourdes had a sharps injury score of 1.3 sharps injuries per 100 full-time staff compared with the national average of 2.7 for all teaching hospitals. Peg Johnson, RN and employee health clinician for the health system, said, "Self-closing safety caps and self-contained withdraw needles have made a big difference," but "the key is training practitioners on how to use [needles] properly" (George, Philadelphia Business Journal , 11/6). The 4 foundational cracks that are undermining your nurses’ resilience
Check out our infographic to learn which four cracks in the care environment leaders must repair to rebuild the foundation for a resilient workforce.
