November 8, 2018 Here’s a real-life hero soaring above the clouds. Flight attendant Patrisha Organo shared a now-viral photo last night of her holding a passenger’s baby girl which she breastfed during a flight. Organo told Coconuts Manila in a call that this happened on Tuesday morning during a domestic flight. She said in the Facebook post that it was a check flight that she needed to take so that she could become a Cabin Crew Evaluator, a promotion from her title as an Assistant Line Administrator. Check flights are trips cabin crew members need to take before they could be qualified for other positions. “I thought that this flight’s gonna be so special as this is a big step on (sic) my flying career,” she starts her post. And it actually was. She said in the Facebook post that everything went smoothly until after the plane took off. “I heard an infant’s cry, a cry that will make you want to do anything to help,” she wrote. Organo saw a mother with her child and asked her if things were alright. She asked the mother if she could feed her child but the mother said she didn’t have any more formula milk. “I don’t think the mother really breastfeeds,” Organo, who has been a Philippine Airlines flight attendant for over three years now, told Coconuts in a mix of English and Filipino. She said that the mother and baby were at the airport since 9pm the night before. “[The mother was] traveling alone with [the] infant.” “I felt a pinch in my heart. There’s no formula milk onboard. I thought to myself, there’s only one thing I could offer and that’s my own milk. And so I offered,” she wrote in the post. A co-flight attendant assisted Organo and the mother to the aircraft’s galley, where most flight attendants stay and rest during a flight. She continued in the Facebook post: “I saw the relief on her mother’s eyes. I continued to feed the baby until she fell asleep. I escorted her back to her seat and just before I left, the mother sincerely thanked me.” “I was right, the flight’s gonna be special, so special not only because I got qualified as [a cabin crew evaluator] but I got to help,” Organo added. She told Coconuts that she’s an advocate of breastfeeding: “I wish to normalize breastfeeding because how could you breastfeed the child in the CR (restroom)? Do you guys eat in the CR (restroom)? It’s an unnatural way to feed a baby.” Organo added that she was surprised by how quickly her Facebook post became viral. “I was shocked because I just wanted to inspire my friends [and] fellow breastfeeding moms,” she told Coconuts . The Facebook post garnered over 59,000 likes and 11,600 shares as of this article’s posting. Netizens commended Organo for stepping up. Facebook user Ruel Calvelo said: “You are amazing.” Facebook user Carmela Dela Cruz wrote: “Keep it up mam (sic). God bless you.” “Good job mommy,” said Alona Ramos Bucag. “Mothers helping mothers,” wrote Ria P. Estrella-Padilla. Elma Sansawi Sanduyugan said the post made her cry. Melita Dominguez wrote Organo had a mother’s instinct. Mj Vries said it was “true kindness.” “I love how theres no judgement (sic) between the 2 moms. Formula feeding mom and breastfeeding mom both know a fed baby is the most important,” wrote Arrieanna Danielle Martinez. Gwen Querubin Matanguihan said: “I am (sic) really envy of (sic) you. I only got the chance to breastfeed my baby for a month, and still with formula’s help. [Some] might say you are boastful, posting it to social media. [But] it takes to have a really good heart, before doing such. [May] God bless you more.” Have you witnessed other random acts of kindness like this? Let us know in the comments below or tweet us @CoconutsManila. 2018 Midterm Elections - Yahoo News 44 Democrats
