Americans love to lavish their pets. According to the American Pet Products Association, $69.51 billion was spent on our pets in the U.S. and it is estimated that $72.13 billion will be spent on our pets this year. A new local business offering pampered pet care just opened this week. Paws and Claws at 23 Linden Park, near route 441 in Penfield, is a pet service with a luxury 30,000-square-foot facility, offering 24-hour staffing and day-through-night care suite amenities for cats and dogs.
Emily Bennett launched Paws and Claws Pet Care based on her love of animals. Her passion began when she started to groom and care for dogs of friends and family. She noticed the limited number of quality luxury options for pets and wanted to offer an alternative option to kennels.
The facility is designed to be a pet's home away from home, Bennett said. Paws and Claws has a wide variety of amenities such as grooming, housekeeping room service, daily trail walks, playtime, television, fireplace, couch time, bedtime cuddles and tuck-ins. It is supposed to mimic a high-end resort, for the pampered pet in your life. There's also doggie daycare if your Fido just needs a spa day.
More bubbles The bubble tea craze continues in Rochester. Tai Chi Bubble Fusion is slated to open its fourth location in Monroe County. The new location in Pittsford is at 3300 Monroe Ave., across from Pittsford Plaza in the old Corner Bakery space. Or Blockbuster Video for those of us who have been around for a while.
What's a bubble tea, you may ask. It’s an Asian tea-based drink shaken with fruit or milk with chewy tapioca balls on the bottom. Popular throughout Asian countries such as Taiwan and Japan since the 1990s, bubble tea is also a major trend in cities with large Asian populations.
Several local Asian restaurants served bubble tea about a decade ago and closed, such as KC's Noodles on Park Avenue. Within the past few years, more have popped up, including the recently opened Kung Fu Tea at 2829 W. Henrietta Rd. in Brighton.
Tai Chi Bubble Fusion originally opened at 3300 W. Henrietta Road in Henrietta, right next to The Marketplace Mall. It took the place of a frozen yogurt shop that closed, swapping one trend for another. It expanded to College Town in Rochester and Culver Ridge Plaza in Irondequoit. The Tai Chi chain is also known for its sushi burritos.
There's also Bubble Fusion at 200 East Ave. in the East End, near Eastman School of Music, where you can order your favorite tea with sushi rolls. And if you're near Rochester Institute of Technology, check out Fat Straw inside RIT's Global Village Market at 400 Reynolds Drive.
