Activate your digital access. Miyan Williams is only getting better for Winton Woods. Even after a 430-yard, 6 touchdown night Charlie Hatch , Cincinnati Enquirer Published 3:18 p.m. ET Nov. 8, 2018 | Updated 3:28 p.m. ET Nov. 8, 2018 CLOSE Scott Springer and Shelby Dermer offer the Enquirer Preps lightning round of predictions for top Greater Cincinnati high school football playoffs. Melanie Laughman, mlaughman@enquirer.com Buy Photo Miyan Williams dishes for a touchdown late in the 4th quarter to put Winton Woods up 18-7 at LaSalle Friday, September 22nd at LaSalle High School (Photo: Alex Vehr for the Enquirer) Buy Photo CONNECT COMMENT EMAIL MORE Miyan Williams doesn't surprise Andre Parker anymore. The amount of yards and touchdowns Williams amasses – like 430 yards and six touchdowns last Friday – are surprising, but not the Winton Woods running back's potential. "I've known from the moment I met Miyan, he's truly special," Parker, his head coach said Wednesday after practice. In 11 games this season, Williams has 2,430 rushing yards and 32 touchdowns. He's averaging 12.1 yards per touch. "I'm biased, but yeah, he's the best in the area," Parker said. The running back is a 5-foot-10, 210-pound force who is speedy along the edge and can burst between the tackles. He current has offers from the University of Cincinnati, Kentucky, Maryland, Rutgers and Toledo. In terms of his size, he's always been a dominant force. But, when Williams was a freshman, his coach wondered if he was strong enough mentally. Eventually, he started five games into the season. In his second start, he pounded through the Elder defense for 149 yards and a touchdown in a Winton Woods win at The Pit. That surprised Parker. "I just do what I do when I get the ball," Williams said. Buy Photo
Winton Woods running back Miyan Williams breaks free from the Edgewood defense to run for a touchdown during their game at Fredrick Stadium in Forest Park Friday, Oct. 5, 2018. (Photo: E.L. Hubbard for the Enquirer) More: Miyan Williams leads Winton Woods to 21-17 victory over Moeller But what's most impressive about his current 2018 output is how efficient he's become so quickly. In 2017, he ran for 1,403 yards and 16 touchdowns on 205 carries. This season, he's carried the ball less, doubled his touchdown rate and produced 1,000 yards more on the ground. "As you get older and the more you play, the game tends to slow down," Parker said. "That's what's happening for Miyan. He's able to play at a faster speed but he's able to slow the computer down." He's also the recipient of great downfield block, Parker said. The coach praised his perimeter players – Raequan Prince, Rashaun Brown, Demeer Blankumsee and Bryant Johnson Jr. – for their downfield blocking, which in return extended runs into explosive plays and touchdowns. Williams had a 98-yard run earlier this season and an 88-yard one last Friday in the 49-42 win over Lewis Center Olentangy. "If we ever watch game film, it's amazing," Parker said. "Sometimes they'll sprint 20 yards to catch a kid to get in front of him and block so they won't catch (Williams). That part of it is probably the biggest difference." But Williams is just as selfless, too. He never complains about his carry count or use in a game, high or low. Parker said the running back will sacrifice his body to make a block. He drives teammates to school and practice. Williams even pointed out his humbleness as something he's proud of. In the offseason, the back and coach talked about expectations in 2018. The Warriors played in the state championship game last season, but lost seniors to graduation. In short, Williams needed to provide more. "I basically said, 'Out of the whole pizza, you have got two slices,'" Parker recalled. "'You might have to eat three-quarters of the pizza this year and gotta be ready for that.'" Williams' response: "Whatever you need me to do." On Friday night, that might mean carrying the offense again. Buy Photo
Winton Woods Warriors quarterback MiChale Wingfield (17) hands the ball off to running back Miyan Williams (28) in the second quarter during a high school football game between St. Francis de Sales and Winton Woods, Friday, Oct. 19, 2018, at Winton Woods High School in Forest Park, Ohio. (Photo: Kareem Elgazzar/The Enquirer) The Warriors play Little Miami in a regional semifinal. Parker said the matchup pairs two teams with similar identities. Williams said it's another chance to execute and extend the season. "I feel like I got better after each week," he said. "We got better as a team after each week." CONNECT COMMENT EMAIL MORE Share your feedback to help improve our site experience! From The USA TODAY NETWORK These sites are part of the USA TODAY NETWORK. Their content is produced independently from our newsrooms. NEWSLETTERS Get the Bengals Beat newsletter delivered to your inbox We're sorry, but something went wrong Please try again soon, or contact Customer Service at 1-800-876-4500. Invalid email address Thank you! You're almost signed up for Bengals Beat Keep an eye out for an email to confirm your newsletter registration.
