Posted by Adam Dyson on Nov 8th, 2018 // No Comments
Zacks Investment Research upgraded shares of Rubius Therapeutics (NASDAQ:RUBY) from a sell rating to a hold rating in a research note published on Wednesday.
According to Zacks, “Rubius Therapeutics, Inc. is a bio-technology company. It develops cellular therapies for the treatment of auto-immune, metabolic and other diseases. Rubius Therapeutics, Inc. is based in Cambridge, United States. “ Get Rubius Therapeutics alerts:
Several other analysts have also commented on the company. Jefferies Financial Group initiated coverage on Rubius Therapeutics in a research note on Monday, August 13th. They issued a buy rating and a $40.00 price target on the stock. Leerink Swann initiated coverage on Rubius Therapeutics in a research note on Monday, August 13th. They issued an outperform rating on the stock. Morgan Stanley initiated coverage on Rubius Therapeutics in a research note on Monday, August 13th. They issued an overweight rating and a $37.00 price target on the stock. Finally, JPMorgan Chase & Co. initiated coverage on Rubius Therapeutics in a research note on Monday, August 13th. They issued an overweight rating on the stock. One equities research analyst has rated the stock with a hold rating and four have given a buy rating to the company’s stock. Rubius Therapeutics presently has a consensus rating of Buy and a consensus price target of $38.50. RUBY stock traded down $0.35 during trading on Wednesday, hitting $16.83. The company had a trading volume of 41,263 shares, compared to its average volume of 137,910. Rubius Therapeutics has a fifty-two week low of $15.07 and a fifty-two week high of $33.01.
Rubius Therapeutics (NASDAQ:RUBY) last announced its quarterly earnings results on Friday, August 31st. The company reported ($3.33) EPS for the quarter, missing the Thomson Reuters’ consensus estimate of ($0.60) by ($2.73). During the same quarter last year, the business earned ($1.25) earnings per share. Research analysts expect that Rubius Therapeutics will post -1.7 earnings per share for the current fiscal year.
Hedge funds have recently made changes to their positions in the stock. Rhumbline Advisers acquired a new stake in Rubius Therapeutics in the 3rd quarter valued at $207,000. ARK Investment Management LLC acquired a new stake in Rubius Therapeutics in the 3rd quarter valued at $4,518,000. JPMorgan Chase & Co. acquired a new stake in Rubius Therapeutics in the 3rd quarter valued at $7,512,000. Jennison Associates LLC acquired a new stake in Rubius Therapeutics in the 3rd quarter valued at $11,333,000. Finally, Alliancebernstein L.P. acquired a new stake in Rubius Therapeutics in the 3rd quarter valued at $39,045,000. 0.01% of the stock is currently owned by institutional investors and hedge funds.
About Rubius Therapeutics
Rubius Therapeutics, Inc focuses on the development of red cell therapeutics (RCTs) for the treatment of patients with severe diseases through its rubius erythrocyte design cellular therapy platform. The company is developing various RCTs, such as RTX-134 for treatment of classic and moderate phenylketonuria; RTX-Uricase/URAT1 for treatment of chronic refractory gout; RTX-CBS for treatment of homocystinuria; RTX-OxOx for the treatment of second-line hyperoxaluria; and RTX-ALAD for the treatment of acute intermittent porphyria.
Get a free copy of the Zacks research report on Rubius Therapeutics (RUBY)
For more information about research offerings from Zacks Investment Research, visit Zacks.com Receive News & Ratings for Rubius Therapeutics Daily - Enter your email address below to receive a concise daily summary of the latest news and analysts' ratings for Rubius Therapeutics and related companies with MarketBeat.com's FREE daily email newsletter .
