Cementos Pacasmayo has higher revenue and earnings than China National Materials.
Insider & Institutional Ownership
4.0% of Cementos Pacasmayo shares are held by institutional investors. 0.2% of Cementos Pacasmayo shares are held by company insiders. Strong institutional ownership is an indication that hedge funds, endowments and large money managers believe a company will outperform the market over the long term.
Summary
Cementos Pacasmayo beats China National Materials on 8 of the 9 factors compared between the two stocks.
Cementos Pacasmayo Company Profile
Cementos Pacasmayo S.A.A., a cement company, produces, distributes, and sells cement and cement-related materials in the northern region of Peru. The company operates in three segments: Cement, Concrete and Blocks; Quicklime; and Sales of Construction Supplies. It produces cement for various uses, such as residential and commercial construction, and civil engineering; ready-mix concrete used in large construction sites; concrete blocks, such as paving units or paver stones for pedestrian walkways, as well as other bricks for partition walls and concrete blocks for structural and non-structural uses; and cement based products, including assembly gravity walls, beams and vaults, precast beams, sheet piles, seawalls, and piles, as well as bathroom and housing units. The company also produces and distributes quicklime for use in steel, food, fishing, and chemical industries, as well as mining, agriculture, and other industries. In addition, it distributes other construction materials manufactured by third parties, such as steel rebars, cables, and pipes. The company distributes its cement products and other construction materials manufactured by third parties through a network of 247 independent retailers and 394 hardware stores. Cementos Pacasmayo S.A.A. also sells its cement products directly to other retailers, and to private construction companies and government entities. The company was incorporated in 1949 and is headquartered in Lima, Peru. Cementos Pacasmayo S.A.A. is a subsidiary of Inversiones ASPI S.A.
China National Materials Company Profile
China National Materials Company Limited, together with its subsidiaries, engages in the cement equipment and engineering services, cement, and high-tech materials businesses in the People's Republic of China, the Middle East, Africa, other Asian countries, Europe, the United States, and internationally. It operates in three segments: Cement Equipment and Engineering Services; Cement; and High-Tech Materials. It offers cement design and engineering, as well as cement engineering, procurement, and construction services; cement equipment, such as supporting roller of rotary kilns, girth gear of rotary kilns, preheater towers, shell of rotary kilns, dust removers, bag screens, preheaters, conveying equipment, raw meal conveyers, and milling equipment; and synthetic crystal comprising spinel, fusion-cast synthetic mica, mica powder, and polyimide composite materials. The company also provides industrial ceramics, including silicon nitride ceramic bearing balls, high-voltage porcelains, zirconia ceramic balls, ceramic gaskets, fused silica rolls, alumina ceramic products, fused silica ceramic crucibles, filtering ceramics, synthetic mica, and zirconia ceramic cutters; and composite materials for use in water tanks, wind generator blades, anticorrosive structure platform, large-scale insulators, cool towers, and light high-pressure vessels. In addition, it offers fiber glass products comprising composite glass fiber filter paper, glass fiber filter material, glass fiber filter, medical filter for removing white blood cells, side-glow plastic fiber, plastiv-covering quartz optical fiber, liquid-core optical fiber, end-golw PS plastic fiber, quartz optical fiber, and non-communication optical fiber; and cement and other products. China National Materials Company Limited was founded in 2007 and is based in Central, Hong Kong. Receive News & Ratings for Cementos Pacasmayo Daily - Enter your email address below to receive a concise daily summary of the latest news and analysts' ratings for Cementos Pacasmayo and related companies with MarketBeat.com's FREE daily email newsletter .
