Meghan Markle-Loved Label Veronica Beard is Having a Major Sale - Here's What to Buy! Kami Phillips November 08, 2018 01:17 PM Each product we feature has been independently selected and reviewed by our editorial team. If you make a purchase using the links included, we may earn commission.
Want to score a princess-worthy wardrobe on a real-person budget? Contemporary fashion label Veronica Beard is known for its elevated ready-to-wear pieces and cool-girl aesthetic and right now, they’re offering up a huge selection of their most popular styles for up to 50 percent off! Scroll down to shop five of our favorite styles before the sale ends Nov. 19.
Meghan Markle has been spotted wearing Veronica Beard as far back as 2016 (below) and was even featured on their blog as part of their “Movers & Shakers” Q&A back when she was starring in Suits and running her former lifestyle site The Tig . The brand’s refined tailoring and feminine silhouettes reflect an East Coast-meets-West Coast approach to style, so it’s comes as no surprise that Veronica Beard happens to be one of Meghan’s favorite brands .
 Josiah Kamau/BuzzFoto
Meghan was also seen in Veronica Beard’s black Adley Pants (you can shop a similiar style here ) while on her first official visit to Edinburgh, Scotland in February where she paired the chic black trousers with a tartan wool and cashmere blend Burberry coat and Strathberry crossbody bag.
Samir Hussein/ WireImage
And most recently, she sported the brand’s sky-blue Cary dress while touring Tonga on her Royal Tour with Prince Harry .
Tim Rooke/REX/Shutterstock
RELATED: Dream Big Sweepstakes: Enter for a Chance to Win $10,000 Cash to Spend Like an A-Lister
Thankfully, you don’t have to have to be a Duchess to shop the label’s chicest styles. Here are five of our favorite pieces- head over to Veronica Beard right now to shop tons more stylish selects!
Striped Blazer
Buy It! Geneva Dickey Jacket, $298 (orig. $595) ; veronicabeard.com
Kitten Heel Booties
Buy It! Parker Bootie, $417 (orig. $595) ; veronicabeard.com
Floral Dress
Buy It! Dorado Dress, $298 (orig. $595) ; veronicabeard.com
Varsity Sweater
Buy It! Walton Sweater, $125 (orig. $250) ; veronicabeard.com
Leather Bucket Bag
Buy It! Leather Bucket Bag, $248 (orig. $495) ; veronicabeard.com
 E-Commerce Fashion Meghan Markle Meghan Markle Style Sales Shopping Style Style News Style Shopping EDIT
