Self-Sealing Tires Market - Nano-Intelligent Material Making the Future of Tires: Industry Forecast with Key Player Analysis
Pune, India -- ( SBWIRE ) -- 11/08/2018 -- Self-Sealing tire is a tire that can continue to drive safely when the piercing object breaks through the tire from the outside. The technical principle of the Self-Sealing tire is to form a special protective cover by spraying a layer of nano-intelligent material on the inner wall of the tire. When the puncture penetrates the carcass from the outside, the nano-intelligent material will tightly wrap the puncture to prevent gas from overflowing. When the puncture is pulled out from the carcass, the nano-intelligent material will automatically gather at the perforation to prevent gas vent. In 2018, the market size of Self-Sealing Tires is xx million US$ and it will reach xx million US$ in 2025, growing at a CAGR of xx% from 2018; while in China, the market size is valued at xx million US$ and will increase to xx million US$ in 2025, with a CAGR of xx% during forecast period. In this report, 2017 has been considered as the base year and 2018 to 2025 as the forecast period to estimate the market size for Self-Sealing Tires. This report studies the global market size of Self-Sealing Tires, especially focuses on the key regions like United States, European Union, China, and other regions (Japan, Korea, India and Southeast Asia). PDF Sample For In-depth Analysis and Forecast - https://www.qyresearch.com/sample-form/form/850282/global-united-states-european-union-and-china-self-sealing-tires-market This study presents the Self-Sealing Tires production, revenue, market share and growth rate for each key company, and also covers the breakdown data (production, consumption, revenue and market share) by regions, type and applications. history breakdown data from 2013 to 2018, and forecast to 2025. For top companies in United States, European Union and China, this report investigates and analyzes the production, value, price, market share and growth rate for the top manufacturers, key data from 2013 to 2018. In global market, the following companies are covered: Continental
