Pinnacle West Reports Third-Quarter Earnings Nov 7, 2018 Weather positively impacts quarterly results Retail sales and customer growth deliver bottom-line results Federal tax reform benefits both customers and the company Arizona voters reject ill-conceived Proposition 127 that would haveamended Arizona’s State Constitution
West Capital Corp. (NYSE: PNW) today reported consolidated net
income attributable to common shareholders for the 2018 third quarter of
$315.0 million, or $2.80 per diluted share. This result compares with
net income of $276.1 million, or $2.46 per share, for the same period a
year ago.
“Driven by the second hottest September on record, Arizona’s summer heat
and the resulting increase in retail sales contributed to a solid
quarter and sound financial results,” said Pinnacle West Chairman,
President and Chief Executive Officer Don
Brandt. “In addition, our employees continued to do what they do
best: maintain reliable electric service for our 1.2 million customers.
Our power plants operated well, and our workforce quickly restored
service to customers after several volatile summer storms toppled a
combined 451 poles – almost as many as in the 2016 and 2017 summers
combined.”
Brandt added that delivering value to APS customers went beyond just
keeping the lights on. The company’s regulatory settlement, which was
approved and implemented in August 2017, is enabling the company to
invest in a smarter, cleaner energy infrastructure, while also keeping
electricity rates competitive. This fall, APS filed a second request
with the Arizona Corporation Commission (ACC) to return federal tax
savings to customers. If approved, this second tax cut will provide
retail customers with total tax savings of $205.5 million or almost $8
per month, on average, when combined with the first reduction
implemented in March.
“So far this year, we’ve reduced customer bills by about 2 percent to
continue keeping electricity affordable and clean,” said Brandt. “Over
the last 20 years, our price increases have been below the rate of
inflation. With the refunds from tax reform and other price reductions,
customer rates will be lower at the end of 2018 than they were at the
beginning of the year.”
In addition to strong operational performance, the 2018 third-quarter
financial results were positively impacted by the following factors
compared to the same period a year ago: The effects of weather variations, which are an unpredictabledriver, impacted results by $0.23 per share compared to theyear-ago period. The average high temperature for this year’s thirdquarter was 105.3 degrees – 1.6 percent higher than last year’squarter and 1.2 percent greater than normal based on a rolling 10-yearaverage. The resulting impact in the 2018 third quarter was thatresidential cooling degree-days (a measure of the effects of weather)were 13 percent higher than in the same 2017 period and 5.4 percentabove 10-year historical averages. The impact of federal corporate tax cuts improved results by$0.14 per share, driven by the timing difference between incometax expense and the passing of savings directly back to customers. Greater retail electricity sales – excluding the effectsof weather variations – increased results $0.07 per share due tocustomer growth of 1.6 percent, partially offset by energy efficiencyand distributed generation. Weather-normalized sales were 1.2percent higher in the third quarter compared to 2017’s third quarter,while year-to-date sales were 0.1 percent higher than the first ninemonths in 2017. Higher transmission revenues , excluding the effects ofcorporate income tax rate changes, improved results $0.05 per sharecompared to 2017. Adoption of new accounting guidance and higher market returns forpension and other post-retirement benefits positively impacted resultsby $0.04 per share. The net impacts of the company’s 2017 regulatory settlement improvedearnings $0.02 per share. This increase included a retail base rateincrease, largely offset by the impact of changes in residential ratedesign and seasonal rates. Effective Aug. 19, 2017, the comprehensiveand broadly supported settlement was APS’s first base rate increase infive years. The net effect of miscellaneous items increased earnings $0.03per share.
These positive factors were offset in part by the following items: Higher operations and maintenance expenses reduced results by$0.12 per share compared with the prior-year period. The increasedcosts were largely the result of an increase in public outreach costsat the parent company primarily associated with the Prop 127 ballotinitiative. Other operating expenses , including higher depreciation andamortization and increased taxes other than income taxes, reducedresults by $0.12 per share compared with the prior-year period,largely because of increased plant in service, changes in rates andhigher property values.
Proposition 127 Ballot Initiative Outcome
Prop 127, a ballot measure that would have amended Arizona’s State
Constitution and required Arizona’s regulated utilities to obtain 50
percent of their energy from renewable sources by 2030, was rejected by
voters on Tuesday.
“Arizona voters made it clear that Prop 127 was a bad idea,” said
Brandt. “With the election now behind us, it’s time for Arizonans who
are serious about clean energy to come together and work on a
forward-thinking plan that is right for Arizona.
“Arizona is number three nationally in solar energy installed, and our
APS energy mix is already 50 percent clean, with more improvements to
come. We also are on the cutting edge of advanced battery storage
technology, which has the potential to be a game-changer in clean
energy. And, other initiatives like increased support for electric
vehicles are on the way.”
Financial Outlook
For 2018, the Company continues to expect its consolidated earnings
guidance will be in the range of $4.35 to $4.55 per diluted share on a
weather-normalized basis.
Looking ahead to 2019, the Company estimates its consolidated earnings
will be within a range of $4.75 to $4.95 per diluted share, and expects
to achieve a consolidated earned return on average common equity of more
than 9.5 percent.
Key factors and assumptions underlying the 2018 and 2019 outlook can be
found in the third-quarter 2018 earnings presentation slides on the
Company’s website at pinnaclewest.com/investors .
Conference Call and Webcast
Pinnacle West invites interested parties to listen to the live webcast
of management’s conference call to discuss the Company’s 2018
third-quarter results, as well as recent developments, 11 a.m. ET (9
a.m. Arizona time) today, November 8. The webcast can be accessed at pinnaclewest.com/presentations
and will be available for replay on the website for 30 days. To access
the live conference call by telephone, dial (877) 407-8035 or (201)
689-8035 for international callers. A replay of the call also will be
available until 11:59 p.m. (ET), Thursday, Nov. 15, 2018, by calling
(877) 481-4010 in the U.S. and Canada or (919) 882-2331 internationally
and entering conference ID number 37662.
General Information
West Capital Corp., an energy holding company based in Phoenix, has
consolidated assets of almost $18 billion, about 6,200 megawatts of
generating capacity and 6,300 employees in Arizona and New Mexico.
Through its principal subsidiary, Arizona
Public Service, the Company provides retail electricity service to
nearly 1.2 million Arizona homes and businesses. For more information
about Pinnacle West, visit the Company’s website at pinnaclewest.com .
Dollar amounts in this news release are after income taxes. Earnings per
share amounts are based on average diluted common shares outstanding.
For more information on Pinnacle West’s operating statistics and
earnings, please visit pinnaclewest.com/investors .
This press release contains forward-looking statements based on our
current expectations, including statements regarding our earnings
guidance and financial outlook and goals. These forward-looking
statements are often identified by words such as “estimate,” “predict,”
“may,” “believe,” “plan,” “expect,” “require,” “intend,” “assume,”
“project” and similar words. Because actual results may differ
materially from expectations, we caution readers not to place undue
reliance on these statements. A number of factors could cause future
results to differ materially from historical results, or from outcomes
currently expected or sought by Pinnacle West or APS. These factors
include, but are not limited to: our ability to manage capital expenditures and operations andmaintenance costs while maintaining high reliability and customerservice levels; variations in demand for electricity, including those due to weather,seasonality, the general economy, customer and sales growth (ordecline), and the effects of energy conservation measures anddistributed generation; power plant and transmission system performance and outages; competition in retail and wholesale power markets; regulatory and judicial decisions, developments and proceedings; new legislation, ballot initiatives and regulation, including thoserelating to environmental requirements, regulatory policy, nuclearplant operations and potential deregulation of retail electric markets; fuel and water supply availability; our ability to achieve timely and adequate rate recovery of our costs,including returns on and of debt and equity capital investment; our ability to meet renewable energy and energy efficiency mandatesand recover related costs; risks inherent in the operation of nuclear facilities, including spentfuel disposal uncertainty; current and future economic conditions in Arizona, including in realestate markets; the development of new technologies which may affect electric sales ordelivery; the cost of debt and equity capital and the ability to access capitalmarkets when required; environmental, economic and other concerns surrounding coal-firedgeneration, including regulation of greenhouse gas emissions; volatile fuel and purchased power costs; the investment performance of the assets of our nucleardecommissioning trust, pension, and other post-retirement benefitplans and the resulting impact on future funding requirements; the liquidity of wholesale power markets and the use of derivativecontracts in our business; potential shortfalls in insurance coverage; new accounting requirements or new interpretations of existingrequirements; generation, transmission and distribution facility and systemconditions and operating costs; the ability to meet the anticipated future need for additionalgeneration and associated transmission facilities in our region; the willingness or ability of our counterparties, power plantparticipants and power plant land owners to meet contractual or otherobligations or extend the rights for continued power plant operations;and restrictions on dividends or other provisions in our credit agreementsand Arizona Corporation Commission orders.
These and other factors are discussed in Risk Factors described in Part
1, Item 1A of the Pinnacle West/APS Annual Report on Form 10-K for the
fiscal year ended December 31, 2017, which readers should review
carefully before placing any reliance on our financial statements or
disclosures. Neither Pinnacle West nor APS assumes any obligation to
update these statements, even if our internal estimates change, except
as required by law.
