Company Website Share:
STAMFORD, Conn., FUJIFILM Medical Systems U.S.A., Inc ., a leading provider of Medical Informatics and Enterprise Imaging solutions, today announced that its Synapse 5 PACS has been granted a Risk Management Framework-based (RMF) Authority to Operate (ATO) on U.S. DoD networks. The U.S. Department of Defense (DoD) awarded the ATO after a rigorous 14-month process assessing Fujifilm's comprehensive technology and evaluating Synapse 5 PACS under specific security and privacy controls outlined in the RMF.
"Fujifilm is proud to have earned this ATO because it demonstrates that our technology is meeting the strict and precise security standards of the U.S. government," said Johann Fernando, Ph.D., Chief Operating Office, FUJIFILM Medical Systems, U.S.A., Inc. "We consider this ATO with the DoD to be an outstanding accomplishment and the highest vote of confidence in Fujifilm."
The DoD's Risk Management Framework provides a process that integrates security and risk management activities into the system development life cycle. The risk-based approach to security control selection and specification considers effectiveness, efficiency, and constraints due to applicable laws, directives, executive orders, policies, standards, or regulations.
After completing a thorough security assessment, the DoD determined that Fujifilm's Synapse 5 PACS meets its controls for RMF including the DoD 8500 Series controls and the Security and Technical Implementation Guides (STIG) requirements. The new ATO granted to Fujifilm is valid through 2021. Fujifilm now has ATO for its Synapse 5 PACS, Synapse PACS 4.4, as well as Synapse Mobility's HTML client.
Ensuring the privacy and protection of healthcare data for military personnel and their families is a top priority for Fujifilm. As such, the company has a lab and CyberSecurity team in Raleigh, N.C., dedicated to delivering unparalleled healthcare IT security solutions to the U.S. government.
"While few vendors meet the stringent security levels the DoD demands, receiving the RMF means Fujifilm measures up— providing tested, trusted healthcare technology systems the DoD can depend on," said Martin Spence, Security Officer, FUJIFILM Medical Systems, U.S.A., Inc. "As the U.S. Armed Forces operate under reciprocity, we look forward to the potential to offer our solutions to various branches of the U.S. military."
Madigan Army Medical Center located on Joint Base Lewis-McChord just outside of Lakewood, Washington is anticipated to be among the first Army facilities to install Fujifilm's Synapse 5 PACS. Madigan is a key component of the Madigan Healthcare System and one of the largest military hospitals on the West Coast of the United States.
For more information on Fujifilm's Synapse 5 PACS, visit www.speedatthecore.com . This technology will be available for demonstration at RSNA, booth # 2545.
About Fujifilm
FUJIFILM Medical Systems U.S.A., Inc. is a leading provider of diagnostic imaging products and medical informatics solutions to meet the needs of healthcare facilities today and well into the future. From an unrivaled selection of digital x-ray systems, to the Synapse® brand of PACS, RIS and cardiovascular products, to advanced women's health imaging systems, Fujifilm has products that are ideal for any size imaging environment. FUJIFILM Medical Systems U.S.A., Inc. – Endoscopy supplies high quality, technologically advanced endoscopic imaging solutions and devices to the medical field. TeraMedica Division delivers healthcare informatics, and is the leading provider of vendor neutral, enterprise-wide solutions for unrestricted medical image management. FUJIFILM Medical Systems U.S.A., Inc. is headquartered in Stamford, CT. For more information please visit www.fujimed.com and www.fujifilmendoscopy.com .
FUJIFILM Holdings Corporation in Tokyo, Japan, brings innovative solutions to a broad range of global industries by leveraging its depth of knowledge and fundamental technologies derived from photographic film. Its proprietary core technologies contribute to the fields of healthcare, graphic systems, highly functional materials, optical devices, digital imaging and document products. These products and services are based on its extensive portfolio of chemical, mechanical, optical, electronic and imaging technologies. For the year ended March 31, 2018, the company had global revenues of $23.0 billion, at an exchange rate of 106 yen to the dollar. Fujifilm is committed to responsible environmental stewardship and good corporate citizenship. For more information, please visit: www.fujifilmholdings.com .
CONTACT: Danielle Brown, Fujifilm, (914) 574-3273, danielle.brown@fujifilm.com
