Complete Box Score »
It’s another goal accomplished for Bogota .
The annual quest for this team is to punch a ticket to William Paterson for the state finals and thanks to a 25-12, 25-21 win over sixth-seeded Kinnelon , second-seeded Bogota, No. 14 in the NJ.com Top 20, did just that Wednesday night in Bogota.
“I thought the first set we really controlled it,” said Bogota coach Brad DiRupo . “We played at such a high level and then it kind of dropped a little bit. I think they played a little bit better in the second game and it went back and forth for a while but at the end we made some plays to finish it.”
It was a big night for coach DiRupo, as he was formally honored for winning his 500th game back in September.
On the court, it was Leila Ksiyer helping lead the charge offensively.
“Leila was big (yesterday).” DiRupo said. “Leila has been playing so well lately. She took over the first set and then when it got close in the second set she made some nice plays for us. She’s playing at a really high level.”
Ksiyer recorded 14 kills in the win, which established a new season high.
Nylene Mateo added 12 kills of her own and Alyssa Vazquez collected 22 assists.
Defensively, Amy Chavez leading the way with 14 digs.
“I thought we did well defensively,” DiRupo said. “We really worked on it this week and worked on it for (yesterday). If we’re going to beat Verona, we’re going to have to play well defensively. I thought our defense did a real nice job. We played tough, we dug balls and passed well.”
Verona is who Bogota has on deck in the Group 1 final. It marks the third consecutive season both teams will meet at William Paterson. Bogota won the crown in 2016 and Verona won it all last fall.
Verona also won the previous meeting this season on Oct. 17, a 27-25, 29-27 thriller.
“We’re much better (now),” DiRupo said. “Our personnel has changed around a little bit. We’re going with two setters now instead of one, which makes us better offensively and defensively. I think we’ll be ready to go on Saturday. It’ll be a really good match and we’re looking forward to it.”
Allison Sienicki led Kinnelon with five kills and Emma Yeatman added three kills and three blocks. Ashley Verma collected six digs and Erin Ahart had eight assists.
As a team, Kinnelon recorded three aces.
As the season wore on, Kinnelon found its game and put a rocky 5-9 start in the rearview mirror. The team closes its 2018 campaign with a 15-11 record having gone 10-2 down the stretch.
Brian Bobal may be reached at . Follow Brian on Twitter @BrianBobalHS . Like NJ.com High School Sports on Facebook .
