I am all for freedom of choice: Kohli reacts to trolls over his 'leave India' comment India Blooms News Service | @indiablooms | 08 Nov 2018 #ViratKohli , #IndianCricketCaptain , #FreedomOfChoice
Mumbai, Nov 8 (IBNS): After facing backlash over his statement asking a critic to leave the country for liking foreign batsmen, Indian cricket captain Virat Kohli on Thursday said he believes in freedom of choice.
After facing wrath from several Twitterati, Virat tweeted to say: "I guess trolling isn't for me guys, I'll stick to getting trolled! I spoke about how "these Indians" was mentioned in the comment and that's all. I’m all for freedom of choice. Keep it light guys and enjoy the festive season. Love and peace to all. " I guess trolling isn't for me guys, I'll stick to getting trolled!  I spoke about how "these Indians" was mentioned in the comment and that's all. I’m all for freedom of choice.  Keep it light guys and enjoy the festive season. Love and peace to all. ? — Virat Kohli (@imVkohli) November 8, 2018
Virat made the comment while he was interacting with his fans through virtual world on the occasion of launching his own application.
In a video, which went viral on internet, Virat could be seen reading out the statement of the person who drawn ire from the skipper. According to Virat, the person said: "(Virat Kohli is an) Overrated batsman. I have personally seen nothing special in his batting. I enjoy watching English and Australian batsmen more than these Indians."
Though Virat didn't take any offence for calling him an "overrated batsman", he slammed the critic for liking English and Australian batsmen more than the Indians.
In reply, the skipper said: "Okay. I don't think that you should live in India. You should go and live somewhere else you know. Why are you living in our country and loving other countries. But I don't mind you not liking me but I don't think you should live in our country and like other things. Get your priorities right." (sic) I am all for freedom of choice: Kohli reacts to trolls over his 'leave India' comment India Blooms News Service
