Singas: Former AG Schneiderman won't face abuse charges Posted: Updated: NEW YORK -
Former New York Attorney General Eric Schneiderman will not face criminal charges for allegations of physical abuse against women, Nassau County District Attorney Madeline Singas announced Thursday.
Gov. Andrew Cuomo appointed Singas six months ago as the special prosecutor to look into claims by four women that Schneiderman had physically abused them during sexual encounters.
Singas on Thursday issued a statement saying she concluded the investigation and that Scneiderman will not be charged.
"I believe the women who shared their experiences with our investigation team, however legal impediments, including statutes of limitations, preclude criminal prosecution," Singas said.
Schneiderman himself then issued a statement in response saying: "I recognize that District Attorney Singas' decision not to prosecute does not mean I have done nothing wrong. I accept full responsibility for my conduct in my relationships with my accusers."
Singas also proposed legislation Thursday to change the law and make it a crime of sexual harassment if someone without consent "slaps, strikes, shoves or kicks" another person "with the purpose of sexual arousal or gratification."
Laura Ahearn, an attorney with Parents for Megan's Law, says there is a great need to strengthen current New York state law to protect victims of sexually motivated violence.
Michelle Manning Barish, one of Schneiderman's accusers, tweeted that she feels "completely vindicated" by Schneiderman's admission that he was "wrong" and accepted responsibility for his actions. I appreciate the District Attorney’s statement and will work to ensure that such legislation passes in NY state and elsewhere. I feel completely vindicated by Eric Schneiderman’s admission that he engaged in the abuse to which he subjected me and the other women. — M Manning Barish (@MichelleBarish) November 8, 2018
She also demanded that he donate millions of dollars left in his campaign funds to women's shelters and domestic abuse programs. Can't Find Something?
