PETALUMA, Calif. In any business, there is a lot to keep track of. From client journeys to accounting and employee performance and procedures, the amount of information that needs to be tracked can be astounding. Historically, those records have been housed in filing cabinets as paper documents. In the age of technology, digital systems are stepping up as the preferred database for all such information. However, some companies still hesitate to make the jump. Frere Enterprises, a holding company specializing in digital transformations, believes that the advantages of digital business systems far outweigh any disadvantages.
Continue Reading
Credit: saknakorn/Bigstock
"I've seen how the CRM I use in my businesses affects our productivity and how we can interact with our clients and I wouldn't have it any other way," said Brandon Frere , CEO of Frere Enterprises. "Without such reliable tech, we wouldn't be able to take the specialized approach that makes our clients feel so valued."
Digital Customer Relationship Management software (CRM) is at its core a digital database of information. Besides the physical space saved, CRMs can save time as well when employees need to find a file for any reason. CRMs can track all aspects of a client's journey and anyone at the company with access to these files can see each contact point, sale and any issues or other notes. Companies relying on communication by telephone can also keep recorded call files in the database connected to each file with a time stamp and notes. Gathering customized reports of all clients or even groups of clients based on specific criteria can be quick and easy and it can help business leaders make important decisions.
A key feature of digital systems is the opportunity to automate. When a workflow requires multiple people or departments to have their hands on a file, automating the file's journey from one department to the next can cut out time and money spent on the manual transference of those records. CRMs may also enable companies to build marketing campaigns that are rolled out in an automated system, making client retention and lead generation less hands-on.
"Companies are complicated, and the better the tools you have to track all the necessary data, the more you'll be able to focus on your clients," said Frere. "Without them, you wouldn't have the opportunity to have a business. CRMs allow you to focus on your clients and create meaningful relationships with them."
About Frere Enterprises
Run by CEO Brandon Frere , Frere Enterprises is a California -based company with a global vision based around the usage of special financial technology, or SpecFinTech, with a current focus on financial wellness and productivity.
He has designed and created multiple companies to meet the ever-demanding needs of businesses and consumers, alike. Frere's website, www.FrereEnterprises.com , is used as a means to communicate many of the lessons, fundamentals and information that he has learned throughout his extensive business and technological endeavors. Through Frere Enterprises, he aims to apply those lessons to other business opportunities.
Frere Enterprises' mission is to acquire traditional businesses and digitally transform them to meet and exceed modern day demand. This mission seeks to transform such businesses by developing the newest and most evolved technologies to speed up the evolution of financial services in order to meet the demands of the modern consumer and exceed the potential of the modern era.
FrereEnterprises.com
Related Images
paper-records.jpg Paper Records Credit: saknakorn/Bigstock
image2.png
Related Links
Frere Enterprises home page
SOURCE Frere Enterprises
Related Links http://www.FrereEnterprises.com
