Sep San Diego California is known for its beautiful beaches and amazing climates! There are a ton of things to do in sunny Southern California! Here are my recommendations for 10 things to do in San Diego County, California. This list is arranged by location going from North County to South along the coast. 1. Drive down The Strand in Oceanside
One of my favorite things to do in Oceanside is cruise down The Strand! This street is practically right on the beach, theres nothing quite like seeing the waves crash right outside your car window. Head west on 1st street and you will run right into this fun road that parallels the ocean. https://www.queenofadventure.com/wp-content/uploads/2018/09/IMG_4524.mov.mp4 2. Flower Fields in Carlsbad, California
Strolling through the Flower Fields is my favorite thing to do in Carlsbad, California. If you happen to be in Carlsbad while the Flower Fields are in bloom, (March 1-May 10) I highly suggest you check out this post for more information !
Bonus: Grab an early breakfast at Daily News Cafe and take a leisurely walk down the beach!
Get your Mexican on and grab a margarita at Señor Grubbys outdoor patio or drink a cold one at 83 Degrees .
3. Swami Meditation Gardens in Encinitas, California
Encinitas is the town that made me fall in love with California. Imagine standing on a cliff overlooking the ocean, a cool breeze blows through your hair, as you watch the surfers waiting for the perfect wave. Paradise!
One of my favorite places to visit in Encinitas is the Meditation Gardens at the Self-Realization Fellowship . The gardens are free to visit and situated on a cliff overlooking the ocean. You can meditate next to one of the many koi ponds, pray next to an ocean vista, or simply walk quietly and enjoy the diverse gardens.
Know before you go: Closed Mondays
Address: 215 K Street (between 2nd and 3rd)
Open: Tuesday – Saturday 9:00am-5:00pm and Sunday 11:00am-5:00pm.
Bonus: Visit busy Moonlight State Beach to watch some volleyball players or catch some rays!
Grab a craft cocktail at Union Kitchen and Tap or eat some flavorful chilaquiles at Bier Garden .
Looking for something a little more laid back? Hit up one of my favorite dive bars, The Saloon .
4. Hike at Torrey Pines State Park
Torrey Pines State Park is a must on your way down the coast! Hike from the bottom parking area for a good workout, or drive up to the top and start your hike there!
Follow the trail down to the beach and turn right when you hit the sand. You will see a huge rock a couple hundred yards from here. You can also access this from walking south from the main parking lot along the shoreline. Look a little bit closer at this rock and you can see there is a natural pool right in the center! Jump on in for your private beachside oasis.
Know before you go:
Address: 12600 North Torrey Pines Road, San Diego CA 92037
Hours: 7:15am to Sunset everyday.
Parking can range from $12-$25 Depending on the time or year you visit. Time it right and you can snag a free spot along the highway before actually entering the park.
5. Spot the Iconic face inside Sunny Jim Cave
There are lots fun things to do in La Jolla Cove! For a quick adventure, hit The Cave Store . Upon entering the store, pay the fee ($5 for adults, $3 for kids) and then you can walk down into Sunny Jim’s Cave. Watch your step as the old wooden stairs are often slippery, and if you are tall like me, watch you head too, clearance is low in many places. At the bottom you can often see kayaks paddling by as you enjoy the waves crashing into the cave in front of you. You can also try to take a profile shot lined up with with the opening of the cave. Take a closer look, do you see the iconic Sunny Jim face in the formation?
Address: 1325 Coast Blvd, La Jolla, CA 92037
6. View seals and sea lions at La Jolla Cove
The first time I visited La Jolla cove, I fell in love. I love viewing animals in their natural habitat, and in this picturesque setting you can view tons of sea lions. I have never been here when I didn’t see at least a few of them lying around resting in the sun. If you decide to take a closer look, please make sure to respect these stunning creatures and give them a little space.
Look at the gashes in this big boy! He was causing quite a stir and making a lot of noise.
Address: 1100 Coast Blvd., La Jolla, CA 92037 7. Kayak La Jolla Cove
Kayaking La Jolla Cove is an absolute blast! I would be shocked if I ever went to La Jolla and didn’t see any kayakers. If you feel confident, you can explore on your own. There are also tours that will guide you around the cove and through some of the caves. I absolutely loved kayaking the cove and ended up surfing some small waves in it as well. La Jolla, California is my #1 top place to visit in San Diego!
Helpful Tip : La Jolla (pronounced La Hoya) is truly one of my favorite spots in Southern California. Make sure not to butcher the name like I did when I visited the first time.
Bonus: Because of its stunning beauty La Jolla Cove is one of the top photographed locations in Southern California. Marine life is plentiful here because it is part of the San Diego La Jolla Underwater Park Ecological Reserve. If you like to snorkel or dive this is a great spot for you to jump on in and enjoy the underwater sights. If that sounds a little intense to you, I am certainly not one for either of those activities, you can have a picnic in the park.
8. Party hard in San Diego’s Gas Lamp Quarter
There is no shortage of nightlife in this thriving San Diego neighborhood. The streets in the Gaslamp Quarter are packed with cocktail lounges, clubs and dive bars. One of my favorites is the rooftop lounge at Rustic Root . No matter what your style is, you are sure to find the perfect night out here! 9. Wine Pairings and Burlesque Show at Vin de Syrah
Vin De Syrah is one of my favorite bars and it’s located in the Gas Lamp Quarter in San Diego. This Alice and Wonderland themed bar is an instagrammers paradise! Things start to getting little trippy before you even enter Wonderland. I hope you can find the entrance door, theres a handful to choose from! Don’t worry if you choose wrong the first time, its no big deal, but the people inside might be getting a good laugh as they watch!
Once inside, you can snap you newest instagram pics and sip delicious wine. I highly recommend reserving your spot for one of the wine tastings. $35 gets you three glasses of wine, food pairings and a ton of entertainment. Our sommelier was hilarious and informative!
Bonus: Book your tasting on Friday night, the weekly Burlesque show begins shortly after the tasting concludes. Also, make sure to eat before you go, the tastings are quite small and the wine can sneak up on you!
Know Before You Go: 901 Fifth Ave, San Diego, CA 92101
Closed Mondays
Tues, Wed, & Sun 5pm – 12am Thurs, Fri, & Sat 5pm – 2am
10. Visit Hotel Del Coronado
Just minutes from downtown San Diego on Coronado Islands sits the Iconic Hotel Del Coronado. This seaside resort is truly a historic oasis with all the luxury amenities you desire. You can chill beachside, grab a drink at one of the many bars, dine at any one of the fantastic restaurants, or spend your hard earned money at any of the charming shops. You don’t need a hotel reservation to explore the hotel grounds just find parking nearby and come on in!
Address: 1500 Orange Ave, Coronado , CA 92118
Bonus: Visit the other side of the island for a skyline view of San Diego!
If you haven’t yet had a chance to visit San Diego and the surrounding areas what are you waiting for? The variety of adventures and activities is endless and the weather is as close to perfect as you can get! The Golden State is waiting to be explored! Why stop with just San Diego? Complete your trip with a little time in LA!
