Sport Celtic players rated as Kieran Tierney puts in tireless shift in impressive Hoops victory The Celtic left-back was up and down the line all night and his early goal got the hosts off to the perfect start. Share Click to play Tap to play The video will start in 8 Cancel Play now Get Celtic
It's been a long time since Celtic produced a quality performance against a top European side but the Hoops put in a fluent and dynamic display as they won 2-1 against RB Leipzig.
Their hopes of securing Europa League football after Christmas are still well and truly alive after goals from Odsonne Edouard and Kieran Tierney secured a priceless three points.
Tierney gave the Hoops the lead and Celtic held it for a long time but when Jean-Kevin Augustin equalised with less that a quarter of an hour to go it looked like it would be another frustrating evening.
But Celtic responded immediately and went right up the park, Ryan Christie showed great skill to get free and then squared to Edouard for the Frenchman to tap in, sending Celtic Park into raptures. Odsonne Edouard taps in the winner (Image: Getty Images) Read More
It was a vital win for Celtic, and with one exception, a night of quality performances all round.
Gordon Waddell rated the men in the Hoops. How they rated
Craig Gordon Celtic goalkeeper Craig Gordon thwarts Leipzig's Jean-Kevin Augustin (Image: SNS Group)
Brave take early on saw him knocked about but recovered well. Only one real tester of a save but handling and kicking excellent. Helpless at goal. 7
Mikael Lustig No lack of effort but indecision with his distribution, even his throw-ins, was frustrating to watch at times, along with some of his defending. 5
Dedryck Boyata One of the Belgian’s most disciplined and risk-free performances in the Hoops. Took bodies, not chances. Colossal show. 8
Filip Benkovic Took a pro’s booking for handball to deny a three-man break in the first half but otherwise impeccable defensively. 7
Kieran Tierney (Image: SNS Group)
Magnificent heart-on-his-sleeve performance again from the full back, topped off by a brilliant finish for the opener 8
Callum McGregor Challenging night as the only sitter with Portuguese international Bruma’s mobility a permanent threat, but brilliant awareness and calmness, with and without the ball. 8
Ryan Christie Celtic's Ryan Christie (Image: Action Images via Reuters)
Substance over style this time for the Hoops’ form playmaker. Few chances, but unbelievable workrate, both pressing and on the back foot. Class assist for the winner. 7
Tom Rogic RB Leipzig's Stefan Ilsanker vies for the ball with Tom Rogic (Image: AFP/Getty Images)
Not the Aussie maestro’s most creative night but definitely his most industrious. Shot over from a decent first half look was disappointing. 7
James Forrest More than made up for absence in away game - tremendous shift, a constant thorn to the two full-backs he faced, great assist and defensively disciplined. Absolute stand-out. 8
Scott Sinclair A confidence-free zone, never more evident than his blown second-half one-on-one, but can't be criticised for shift he put in or his part in the winner 6
Odsonne Edouard Celtic's Odsonne Edouard (right) skips away from a tackle (Image: SNS Group)
Kept in check for much of the night by classy Hungarian stopper Willi Orban but relentlessly showed for the ball and got his just reward for a menacing second half. 8
Subs used:
Youssouf Mulumbu On for Forrest to protect lead for last seven minutes. 2
Kristoffer Ajer Replaced Sinclair. Another brick in the defensive wall for the last minute. 1 Read More
