SAN FRANCISCO Gymboree Group, Inc ., a specialty children's retailer including Gymboree , Janie and Jack , and Crazy 8 , today announce its Holiday 2018 Giving Campaign and first-ever multi-brand partnership with Baby2Baby, a non-profit organization that provides low-income children with all the basic necessities that every child deserves. One in three families across the United States struggle to provide diapers to their children. Through the efforts of Baby2Baby, over 29 million diapers in the past seven years have been distributed to low-income families.
Lauren Conrad, Baby2Baby Ambassador, Supports Janie and Jack's Holiday Giving Campaign with Baby2Baby Jessica Alba, Baby2Baby Ambassador, Supports Gymboree's Holiday Giving Campaign with Baby2Baby Julie Bowen, Baby2Baby Ambassador, Supports Crazy 8's Holiday Giving Campaign with Baby2Baby "We are proud to partner with Baby2Baby to offer our customers the opportunity to join us in providing for hundreds of thousands of children across the United States and Canada ," said Daniel Griesemer , President and CEO of Gymboree Group. "As a brand, we believe that children are our future, and they inspire the work we do every day, which is why we are passionate and dedicated to taking action this holiday season."
As a way to give back during the holiday season, customers will have the opportunity to donate while checking out at over 900 Gymboree, Janie and Jack, and Crazy 8 stores across the U.S. and Canada , as well as online through Thursday, January 31, 2019 . Baby2Baby ambassadors, Jessica Alba , Lauren Conrad and Julie Bowen , will also lend their support to the campaign and encourage donation participation. Beyond customer donations, Gymboree Group is committed to donating over 150,000 units of clothing to Baby2Baby.
"As a Baby2Baby Board Member and Ambassador, I truly believe in the importance of the work they're doing within the community," said Jessica Alba . "I cannot imagine what it must be like for parents who aren't able to afford basic everyday essentials for their children, and I'm so proud to be part of an organization working to alleviate some of that burden on these families. We are so grateful to partner with Gymboree on this campaign and hope everyone will join Baby2Baby in helping these children in need while shopping there this holiday season."
"As a mom and supporter of Baby2Baby, I'm proud to share Janie and Jack's Holiday Giving Campaign and encourage everyone to join me in helping the children that Baby2Baby serves," said Lauren Conrad . "Baby2Baby provides children in need with diapers, clothing and basic necessities that every child deserves. Let's give back together and make this season a little bit more magical."
"Baby2Baby helps hundreds of thousands of children across the country living in poverty, and this holiday season we are thrilled to have Crazy8's support through their Holiday Giving Campaign which provides funds and clothing," said Julie Bowen . "They make it easy for supporters to help give at their local Crazy8 store or online at Crazy8.com - let's do something great together this holiday season."
To donate to Baby2Baby, please visit Gymboree.com/baby2baby, Janieandjack.com/baby2baby or Crazy8.com/baby2baby and join the conversation on social media by tagging @gymboree, @janieandjack, @crazy8 and @baby2baby.
ABOUT GYMBOREE GROUP, INC. Gymboree Group, Inc. is a portfolio of children's brands operating specialty retail stores with high-quality clothing and accessories for children. The company currently operates 380 Gymboree stores in the United States and Canada . Gymboree Group's family of brands includes Gymboree®, Janie and Jack® and Crazy 8®, with hundreds of retail stores across the United States , Canada and Puerto Rico as well as online stores at www.gymboree.com , www.janieandjack.com and www.crazy8.com .
ABOUT BABY2BABY Baby2Baby, a non-profit organization led by Co-Presidents Kelly Sawyer Patricof and Norah Weinstein , provides low-income children, ages 0-12 years, with diapers, clothing and all the basic necessities that every child deserves. This year alone, Baby2Baby will serve more than 180,000 children in Los Angeles and thousands more in 28 cities across the country through the Baby2Baby National Network. To date, the organization has distributed over 50 million items including more than 29 million diapers. To learn more about Baby2Baby please visit www.baby2baby.org .
SOURCE Gymboree Group, Inc.
Related Links http://www.gymboree.com
