FAMILY EVENT: The Echuca-Moama show will kick-off tomorrow. Photo: LUKE HEMER
THE showgrounds will come alive with the annual Echuca-Moama Agriculture Show this weekend.
With stomach-dropping rides, wonderful circus tricks, whip cracking and more to get the whole family involved and a mesmerising firework display, you do not want to miss out.
Echuca Moama & Districts Agricultural Show Society has worked tirelessly to ensure there is something for everyone.
The show’s committee member and organiser Donna Katzer hopes all local families will come down to enjoy the fantastic community event.
‘‘Our first fundraiser was in December last year,’’ she said.
‘‘As soon as one show finishes we pay our bills and count our costs and begin organising for the next year.
‘‘I’m always nervous as the weekend approaches but I’m excited.
‘‘Our aim for the show is to have something for every member of the family to enjoy.
‘‘We really want this to be a family event.’’
A huge attraction at this year’s show is Brophy Bros Circus. The family circus troupe has been entertaining hoards of people for almost 40 years. The Echuca-based company will bring their dazzling performance at various times throughout the show for free.
‘‘Through all the fundraising we’ve done, there’s so many free events and activities to enjoy,’’ Donna said.
‘‘From the circus to mini golf, face painting, the Australian champion in chainsaw carving show, temporary tattoos, reptile displays and pony rides, you will be entertained.
‘‘My biggest tip is to get the weekend pass so you can come and go to whatever you like as you please. But don’t miss the circus and the fire works display. The fireworks is one of the biggest displays the pyrotechnic does.
‘‘Be sure to bring your family — there’s so much to do all day.
Throughout the two-day event, there will be a huge array of events and attractions for you to enjoy. From a donut eating competition to a tug-of-war contest, a pet show and ute display, to a tiny tots and show girls pageant to a show and shine, the Echuca-Moama Agriculture Show has your weekend sorted.
Entry is $10 for an adult, $5 for children under 16 and children under five are free.
Alternatively, you can purchase a family weekend pass for $30 which lets you come and go to the show all weekend.
The showgrounds are located at Simmie St, Echuca.
The show is open from 9am-late on Saturday and 9am-3pm on Sunday.
“We would like to thank the community and business who have helped us fundraise for the show. Without you, this weekend would not be possible,’’ Donna said. Latest articles
