Michael Williams, the man accused of killing Angela Simmons’ ex-fiance, turned himself in Wednesday. His attorney, Jackie Patterson, said his client is “devastated.” Photo: Fulton County Sheriff’s Office A man turned himself in Wednesday in connection with the weekend shooting death of a reality star’s ex-fiancé in southwest Atlanta. Channel 2 Action News reported that Michael Williams faces charges of murder, aggravated assault with a deadly weapon and possession of a firearm during a felony.
Williams declined to answer questions outside Atlanta police headquarters, but his attorney said Williams is “devastated” by the allegations. “He’s absolutely devastated. He’s a family man,” attorney Jackie Patterson told Channel 2.
Williams is accused of shooting and killing 37-year-old Sutton Tennyson, the ex-fiancé of reality television star Angela Simmons.
He was denied bond at his first court appearance Thursday, Channel 2 Action News reported.
No bond for the man accused of murdering the ex fiancé of the daughter of a member of legendary rap group Run DMC. I’m learning new information about the case. More details on Channel 2 Action News. @wsbtv pic.twitter.com/THR45HUvQ1
— Tom Jones (@TomJonesWSBTV) November 8, 2018
Atlanta police said Tennyson was killed inside a garage shortly before 5 p.m. Saturday.
A fugitive squad had been searching for Williams, Channel 2 reported. He is expected to appear before a judge Thursday.
Tennyson has a child with Simmons, the daughter of Joseph “Rev. Run” Simmons, one of the founding members of legendary rap group Run–DMC. She is the niece of hip-hop mogul Russell Simmons and appears on WE-TV’s “Growing Up Hip Hop.”
Tennyson was found dead with multiple gunshot wounds inside the open garage on Jewel Drive in an upscale southwest Atlanta community, Atlanta police said.
A preliminary investigation, police said, suggests that Tennyson was talking in the driveway with another man when “the conversation escalated” and the man shot Tennyson multiple times. The man left the scene in a car.
Simmons, whose career includes fashion designing and appearances on other reality shows, posted a tribute to Tennyson on Instagram Sunday, including pictures of him with their child.
“Thank you for leaving behind my greatest gift,” she wrote. “I’m hurting. I’m numb.”
