LOS ANGELES - Century Spring Corp. (CSC), an MW Industries company, has achieved AS9100 Rev. D certification for its custom aerospace spring manufacturing, quality management system (QMS). AS9100 is an aviation, space, and defense quality standard based on the ISO 9001 quality management system and supported by the International Aerospace Quality Group.
AS9100 Rev. D certification provides assurance that products are manufactured to the highest quality standard, ensuring reliability in the most demanding, mission-critical, environments.
"Century Spring has long served the aerospace industry with a variety of high quality, American-made, stock, and custom spring products," said John Teeter , general manager, CSC. "What truly sets us apart, is our versatility and expertise. If a customer needs a stock part tomorrow, we can ship it. If they need to conform to a strict quality standard, we can make it. We are one source for all spring needs, no matter the application."
CSC has always been committed to providing customers with the highest quality parts, manufactured with meticulous quality management, high-tech processes, short lead times and proven reliability.
About Century Spring Corp.
Century Spring Corp. (CSC), an MW Industries company, is the leading global source for Made in the USA stock springs, for any OEM or MRO application. Same day shipments from 35,000+ stock designs - compression, extension, torsion, tapered, disc, urethane, die springs and more. Century also specializes in custom springs and serves a range of markets including medical, aerospace, electronics, and industrial. Inquire at info@centuryspring.com . www.centuryspring.com . ISO 9001:2015 and AS9100D certified QMS.
About MW Industries, Inc.
MW Industries, Inc., headquartered in Rosemont, IL , has been a leading provider of highly engineered springs, specialty fasteners, machined parts and other precision components for more than 50 years. The company excels at rapid prototyping and design of hard-to-make products made from specialty materials. MW Industries serves more than 23,000 customers in over 35 countries. Its 45,000+ products are sold through a combination of direct sales, catalogs and distributors to original equipment manufacturers and aftermarket customers in aerospace, medical, electronics, energy, agriculture/construction, transit, heavy trucks, automotive replacement, industrial, consumer products, and military. www.mw-ind.com .
Contact: Darlene Kober
Senior Vice President, Marketing & Sales
+1 (847) 349-5767
SOURCE Century Spring Corp - MW Industries
Related Links http://www.centuryspring.com
