0 Comments Sometimes it's hard to approach a familiar book with a new perspective. I have read Jane Austen's Emma over and over since I was in high school. I have seen the movies. It's a classic, both in the canon of English literature and in my own reading experience. And rightfully.And now, as part of this project (which I took on myself) I tasked myself to read this book with a question in mind: How can this novel better me, and other authors, in our craft? Is there something to learn from Emma and from Austen as a writer? As I am under the firm belief that there is something to learn from every published work and from every author (everyone, really), the answer is undoubtedly "yes." I just had to find out what that less on was. Thinking back on reading this book (I read it quite a while ago), one primary takeaway came to mind.Austen follows the traditional 3-Act structure in writing Emma , and she does so well. It's most clear when you consider the male counterparts in this story: first, Mr. Elton, then Mr. Churchill, then Mr. Knightley.What's interesting about the 3-Act structure, that Austen includes is this novel, is that the first act is typically external, the second act is internal, and the third act is the conclusion. Mr. Elton represents the external act, because Emma's goal in this act is to set up a relationship between him and Harriet. Mr. Churchill represents the second act, because she has developed an affection for him and her goal is a relationship for herself. The third act, the conclusion, involves Mr. Knightley. It is here that she is faced with seeing two relationships involving him, one external (between Mr. Knightley and Harriet) and one internal (between Mr. Knightley and herself.)When it comes to outlining a novel, I believe there is power in simplicity. Often we try to complicate matters, perhaps in an effort to hide the fact that we created an outline and had a clear direction for the book from the beginning. Does this somehow take away from the "artist's journey"? Is there something more authentic about an artist that just sits down and produces his book from thin air?I don't hide the fact that I advocate for outlining novels. I think, as artists, we can romanticize the writing experience. In reality, there's a lot of strategy involved. And it's okay to show a bit of the strategy when we write, so long as we do it well. I think Austen, among other writers, shows this. Download a copy of my outline template, The Story Map , for free. Writing a good story does not have to be complicated. In fact, looking back on the classics, I think we can find plenty of beauty in simplicity. There is no existential crisis in Emma . There is no drama that any one of Austen's readers cannot experience for herself. Rather, there is a deep understanding of love, and of individual pursuit, that we can all relate to. Nothing really happens in this book other than Emma and Harriet navigating the world of dating and relationships. And yet, this book has stood the test of time. Perhaps there is something to learn in that.
