Tamera just revealed her niece Alaina was one of the victims in the attack … saying, “Our hearts are broken. We just learned that our Alaina was one of the victims of last night’s shooting at Borderline Bar in Thousand Oaks.”
She continues, “Alaina was an incredible young woman with so much life ahead of her and we are devastated that her life was cut short in this manner.”
“Our hearts are broken. We just learned that our niece Alaina was one of the victims of last night’s shooting at Borderline bar in Thousand Oaks,” the couple stated via their joint representative, Chantal Artur. “Alaina was an incredible young woman with so much life ahead of her and we are devastated that her life was cut short in this manner. We thank everyone for your prayers and ask for privacy at this time.”
Pepperdine University freshman Alaina Housley remains missing after a mass shooting at Borderline Bar & Grill in Thousand Oaks, California on Wednesday, Nov. 7, 2018. (Photo: Pepperdine Graphic)
UPDATE: People can be so cruel. Someone sent this ugly comment to Adam Housley during such an horrific time. They are awaiting news about his niece and this is what some social media troll posted! Well, Adam had a response:
I was waiting for the assholes to appear. Please do me a favor and introduce yourself in person and see what the result will be. https://t.co/IDannyW5wA
— Adam Housley (@adamhousley) November 8, 2018
Tamera Mowry is desperately searching for her niece who was at the college bar where a gunman opened fire and brutally killed 12 people.
Tamera’s niece, Alaina Housley , was one of just a handful of girls who went line dancing Wednesday night at Borderline Bar & Grill in Thousand Oaks … this according to a tweet sent by Alaina’s friend who said Alaina was the only girl unaccounted for.
My suitemate is still missing, she is wearing denim shorts, a blue flannel and sneakers, pls let me know if you know anything #Borderline pic.twitter.com/t1nUHneChW
— Ashley (@amowreader) November 8, 2018
Tamara responded to the tweet saying, “Ashley this is her aunt Tamera Mowry Housley. Can you please DM me your information?” The exchange is pretty heartbreaking … Ashley replied saying she’s been in contact with Alaina’s uncle and so far there’s nothing new to report.
Tamara’s husband, Adam, went looking for Alaina at a local hospital but a reporter tweeted guards wouldn’t let him in because the hospital was on lockdown. Making matters worse … Alaina’s Apple Watch and iPhone still showed her location at the bar, this according to the L.A. Times.
Adam told the newspaper, “My gut is saying she’s inside the bar, dead. I’m hoping I’m wrong.”
Alaina Housely we are praying. We love u! If you know anything or any information please let us know. We love you! #borderline
A post shared by tiamowry (@tiamowry) on Nov 8, 2018 at 8:34am PST
Tamera’s husband, Adam, went looking for Alaina at a local hospital but a reporter tweeted guards wouldn’t let him in because the hospital was on lockdown. Making matters worse … Alaina’s Apple Watch and iPhone still showed her location at the bar, this according to the L.A. Times.
Adam told the newspaper, “My gut is saying she’s inside the bar, dead. I’m hoping I’m wrong.”
