Who says you only have to give gifts to others? Why not give yourself a gift? The gift of new furniture! The holidays are a great time to get together and enjoy the company of friends and family. So why not enjoy that time with some new pieces of furniture! And the Northern Ontario Christmas Auction is a great place to pick up some pieces for great savings!!! This year, Teak Furniture has a light beige sectional that will be a great addition to your living room (and will definitely accommodate the extra guests visiting this holiday season). It’s time to sink into this beautiful Canadian-made sectional, and the light shade of beige will complement your existing furniture. The added bonus — it comes with decorative pillows! The regular retail value is $2,000 — but today you can go in and bid $1,000! You’re saving money! And with the money you’re saving, what about adding a brown faux leather recliner to the family room? Nothing is better than sitting in a recliner while watching an NHL hockey game. Well, being at the actual game would be better, but this is pretty darn close — and you can watch the replay of the goal, over and over again, in a comfortable seat. And the opening bidding price is also comfortable — $150 (retail value $299). But why stop shopping for the living and family room? That’s right — Teak Furniture also has furniture for the dining room. Not sure where to put all those “special dining” place settings? Take a look at the Canadian-made buffet and hutch set, rosewood in colour. Retail value is $599, but you can start the opening bid at $300! It’s time to put those place settings to work this holiday season, and this buffet and hutch will display (and store) them nicely. The Northern Ontario Christmas Auction is a great opportunity for you to add new pieces to your home without breaking your holiday budget. Head over to www.sunmediaauctions.com , choose Northern Ontario and start bidding! This holiday season, you can gift yourself with comfort and style with Teak Furniture’s auction items. So don’t waste any time — BID NOW!
