Arsenal stars distraught as Danny Welbeck stretchered off with injury
“This is the worst news tonight It’s clear he was playing well and had chances," Arsenal boss Unai Emery said.
"His injury also affected the mentality of the players as they could see it was a big injury.
“When one player suffers an injury like that the mind thinks of the player first. I think the players were concentrated for the match but when we finished the first thing was to ask about him [Welbeck].
"He’s a very good person. He has a big commitment to us. This injury is very big for him and us.” Danny Welbeck injury: Welbeck was taken off during the first half (Image: GETTY) Danny Welbeck injury: Welbeck points to his ankle while being tended to by the medics (Image: GETTY) Danny Welbeck injury: Welbeck was tended to by medics on the pitch (Image: GETTY)
Petr Cech said: "Danny [Welbeck]'s looked like a serious injury which is not nice to see and our thoughts are with him and also Stephan [Lichtsteiner].”
Speaking at the time of the incident BT Sport commentator Ian Darke said: “Obviously the medical team here will give him as much time as needed.
“And the look on the players’ faces is worrying isn’t it. Look at that.
“I have to tell you there is some concern here and you can see it on those faces.”
Welbeck will almost certainly be out of the England squad for the games against the USA and Croatia after receiving his latest call up earlier today.
Welbeck, who is out of contract in the summer, has scored four goals in his last 10 games including one in the return match with Sporting.
He has been a regular in the Europa League under Emery but has only started once in the Premier League this season. Danny Welbeck injury: Welbeck is carried off on a stretcher (Image: BT SPORT) Danny Welbeck injury: Welbeck is taken off during the first event (Image: BT SPORT) Danny Welbeck injury: Danny Welbeck is carried off the pitch with a serious injury (Image: BT Sport)
“Matteo Guendouzi among those looking on," Darke continued. "Horrible to witness, always.
“The physios have done their best and all you can do in this situation is wish the very best to Danny Welbeck for what is clearly a serious injury.”
Darke added: “Sometimes when there’s a bad injury when the game resumes you often see for a while not many tackles going in. I can think of a few instances of that that we’ve witnessed down the years."
Former Arsenal defender Stewart Robson said: “Certainly a player on this field in that situation, Aaron Ramsey at Stoke City."
Arsenal tweeted their own message of support during the first half.
They posted: “After a lengthy delay, it's going to be a sad end to tonight's game for @DannyWelbeck...
“Welbz is substituted to the sound of Emirates Stadium chanting his name
“We're all hoping for the best for you, Danny.” (Image: Arsenal Twitter)
Former Arsenal defender Martin Keown admits these kind of injuries can shock the other players on the pitch.
“When you see that on a pitch, and I have seen that a couple of times, it’s always a bit shocking,” he said on BT Sport.
“Maybe it’s a problem with the ankle, we don’t want to speculate, is it a dislocation?
“He was getting gas and air there at some point.
“You see the players and it reflects on their faces really.
“I think they realise, look at that, something serious has happened.
“We wish him well, he is probably the nicest man I’ve met in football.
“When you know Danny he’s a great guy, heart and soul of the football club.
“He’s been desperately unlucky with injuries, that’s for sure.”
Mesut Ozil tweeted: "Oh no ... get well soon Danny." (Image: Mesut Ozil Twitter)
Arsenal sealed qualification to the Europa League knockout stages with a 0-0 draw due to FK Qarabag beating Vorskla Poltava 1-0. Danny Welbeck injury: How it happened
Knee and cartilage injuries had robbed him of 70 games between May 2015 and January 2017, and all those injury nightmares were revisited in what looked at first an innocuous enough challenge for the ball in the 26th minute.
Welbeck jumped alongside former Liverpool defender Sebastian Coates near the penalty spot and after squeezing a tame header towards goal appeared to land badly, twisting his right foot completely back on itself.
The stretcher was quickly called for and there was marked discomfort etched on the face of team-mate Matteo Guendouzi as he watched on while the seven-man medical team administered what appeared to be oxygen and pain-killers to the stricken 27-year-old as he was helped gingerly off the field with his right foot heavily braced. Danny Welbeck injury: Welbeck crumpled in a heap after 25 minutes (Image: GETTY) Danny Welbeck injury: The Arsenal ace immediately called for attention (Image: GETTY) Danny Welbeck injury: Arsenal forward Welbeck was taken off on a stretcher (Image: GETTY) Arsenal vs Sporting match summary
Arsenal booked their place in the Europa League knockout rounds with a goalless draw against Sporting Lisbon.
But the game was overshadowed as Welbeck was taken off on a stretcher in the first half.
The England international challenged for a header in the box before crumpling on the pitch, where he then received treatment - including an oxygen mask - as he was carried off to be replaced by Pierre-Emerick Aubameyang.
The injury seemed to affect both sets of players for the rest of the game, with neither team reaching top gear and little in the way of goalscoring opportunities.
The game finally opened up in the 88th minute when Jeremy Mathieu was shown a straight red for a foul on Aubameyang as the striker raced through on goal when in behind the defence.
Sporting were deservedly reduced to 10 men, but they could not take advantage as Aubameyang blasted the resulting free-kick well over the bar. Related articles
