Home Blogs Home Seeing beyond your home décor eyesores Seeing beyond your home décor eyesores By November 8, 2018 BY ASHLEY WILLIAMS // PHOTO BY NEIL RASHBA DESIGNING A LIVING SPACE is usually meant to enhance your home’s aesthetic. A gorgeous designer sofa or even a treasured hutch passed down by Grandma can all add to the unique look of a person’s abode. But what about when it comes to those unusual, not-so-visually-appealing items—i.e, Dad’s absolute favorite-but-absolutely-ugly favorite leather chair? They might possess sentimental value for some, which makes parting ways with them simply not an option. But will one ugly piece drag down the visual appeal of an entire room? “With probably half of our projects, the clients have special things, whether it’s an abnormally sized rug, a piano, special antiques, family items or something that they collected from traveling,” says Amanda Webster, design principal and president of Jacksonville Beach-based Amanda Webster Design . “We very often have unique items to plan around.” Her design firm is no stranger to working with out-of-the-ordinary possessions, including billiard tables so large that they take up an entire room, or a sculpture that featured a giant, bigger-than-humansized egg. “We’ve had clients design whole houses around an antique rug that was a really unusual size,” Webster says. “We always work on our homes before they’re built, so we’ve actually had to go back to the architect on occasion and ask them to add a foot or two to the house to accommodate [antique rugs]. Sometimes, we’ve moved doorways in homes because the client had a particular piece of artwork.” Proper planning and good communication with the designers is key for starting every project, especially those that require integrating special items into the plan. Webster recommends working with the designer to build a comprehensive inventory of their belongings in order to make sure everything is accommodated at the start of the project. “Once in a blue moon, a client will sort of spring something on us after the selections are made and the planning is completed,” Webster says. “Maybe they are given a special piece from a parent, or they inherit something, or they find something that they forgot about,” she continues. “It’s always more difficult to fit something in at the end that wasn’t planned for upfront.” However, Webster says that clients and designers can pretty much plan around anything. For valuables that don’t really fit in with your home’s overall look, the key is to let your interior designer know about these items upfront. “We start every project with a full furniture and art inventory, and we visit the client’s home with a camera and a tape measure, going room by room, taking copious notes, photos and measurements of everything in the home that they absolutely need to reuse or may potentially reuse,” Webster says. When working on the original space planning with their client, the designers make a point to plan on designing the space around those unique items. The design firm is currently in the midst of incorporating some unique, special pieces of artwork into one of its local residential projects. “The artwork has black and red colors in it with a more Asian influence — that’s not something we get asked for in Florida at the beach very often, but they also wanted a coastal, light-colored interior,” Webster recalls. To incorporate the artwork seamlessly into its new home, the designers placed and scattered them around the house where they fit and looked the best. “Then, we made the selections for each room that would complement and include their special items rather than ignoring them,” Webster adds. The end result is a very intentional design which makes these special items look fantastic and purposely placed rather than appearing like old stuff that was tossed into the plan at the last minute, according to Webster. “It’s really important to plan ahead around those pieces and it’s essential that people communicate their wants to the architect or to the designer,” she says.
