Kate rewore a Jenny Packham dress from 2012 for the Tusk Conservation awards (PA) More The Duke and Duchess of Cambridge made a striking entrance, as they attended the Tusk Conservation Awards at Banqueting House, London on Thursday evening. The mum-of-three, 36, wowed in a teal lace Jenny Packham from her pre-baby days, first worn for an official launch party for Team GB ahead of the 2012 Olympics. Kate teamed it with the same matching clutch bag, but opted for blowdried waves, instead of an updo this time round. She completed her look with the Queen’s diamond chandelier earrings. Fans of Kate’s style were delighted to see that the much-loved dress has had another outing. Kate wore the Queen’s diamond chandelier earrings (Getty) More The royal couple looked stunning (Getty) More The Duke sported a black tux for the evening and the pair both wore poppies ahead of the Remembrance Day services this weekend. William and Kate were at the reception to meet the award nominees, supporters and sponsors from the wildlife conservation charity. The Duke became Royal Patron of Tusk in December 2005 and recently visited projects in Namibia and Tanzania . The Duke and Duchess attended the inaugural event in September 2013. It was Kate’s first official engagement after giving birth to her first child Prince George in the July and she dazzled in a sequined Jenny Packham gown with diamond jewellery. The Duke and Duchess of Cambridge at the Tusk Conservation Awards in 2013 (PA) More Story Continues Last month, Kate showed support for her husband’s causes, through her attire at the Netherlands State Banquet. The Duchess donned an ice blue Alexander McQueen gown, but it was the Royal Family Order pinned to her dress that attracted attention. The honour is given by the Queen at her discretion to members of the royal family as a reward for their service. Rather than being made of its usual ivory, Kate’s brooch was a glass one. A small, but significant detail, it paid homage to her husband Prince William’s continuous campaigning for a ban on ivory . Next week, the couple will attend another joint engagement together in South Yorkshire. On Wednesday 14 November, Kate and William will officially open McLaren Automotive’s new Composites Technology Centre in Rotherham, before travelling to Barnsley’s local Centrepoint hostel. Follow us on Instagram and Facebook for non-stop inspiration delivered fresh to your feed, every day. For Twitter updates, follow @YahooStyleUK . Read more from Yahoo Style UK:
