Share: Press Release Summary:
The 360Z Zero Turn Mower features a welded frame and a 36 in. or 46 in. cutting deck. The product allows operator to navigate narrow landscaping obstacles like gates. It is equipped with Snapper Rear Engine Rider that is available in either 28 or a 33 in. mowing deck. The mower is offered with Hydro-Gear EZT transaxle and an optional utility cargo bed that can haul up to 50 lbs. Original Press Release: Snapper® Revamps Classic Rear Engine Rider And Adds Compact Zero Turn Unit
New compact mower has a 36-inch fabricated cutting deck, welded steel frame and dependable warranty.
MILWAUKEE, Nov. 6, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- Briggs & Stratton Corporation is enhancing its Snapper mower offerings with the resurrection of its classic Rear Engine Rider and the launch of its new 360Z zero turn mower (ZTR) with 36-inch cutting deck. New mower offerings have a compact design and innovative features to increase productivity, such as a Hi VAC® Mower Deck to efficiently cut and vacuum up grass clipping available on the Rear Engine Rider, and an optional cargo bed to haul tools or mulch on the 360Z.
"We are bringing back the iconic American Snapper mower design and adding innovation such as vertical stand-on end capability for easy storage," said Ryan Fredrickson, product manager of residential riding mowers. "The new Snapper 360Z has a compact nimble design which allows the operator to effortlessly navigate narrow landscaping obstacles like gates while achieving a high quality of cut that people have come to expect from Snapper."
Snapper Rear Engine Rider We are excited to announce we are bringing back the American icon – the Snapper Rear Engine Rider. The trusted Snapper Rear Engine Rider is powered by a dependable Briggs & Stratton Intek™ Engine and features a Snapper Disc Drive Transmission for stress-free starting, effortless operation and straightforward maintenance with every mow. Available with either a 28-inch or a 33-inch mowing deck, the Rear Engine Rider has a narrow, pivoting frame design which keeps all four wheels on the ground for better traction and cutting performance.
This classic rear engine rider features vertical stand-on end capability, giving the operator the ability to tilt the entire tractor onto its back bumper and save storage room in a garage or shed. Direct access to the underside of the mower makes maintenance such as cleaning the deck and blade simple and fast.
Snapper 360Z Line Expansion The new compact Snapper 360Z line expansion offers a welded steel frame that is 2" shorter than previous models. The shorter length provides increased agility and a sharper turning radius to navigate challenging landscaping. The 360Z has a heavy-duty, fabricated 36-inch mower deck ensuring the ZTR can mow through all types of yard conditions including standard gate openings. There is also a stamped 46-inch mower deck option, cutting mowing time for larger yards. The line-up offers an optional utility cargo bed that can haul up to 50 pounds of mulch, dirt, or outdoor power equipment – allowing homeowners to accomplish more on their weekend to-do list. Homeowners can select from either a Briggs & Stratton® Single Cylinder Engine, Briggs & Stratton® Professional V-Twin Engine or a Kawasaki® V-Twin Engine. All models are equipped with a Hydro-Gear EZT transaxle for added durability with every pass.
The Snapper 360Z with 36-inch or 46-inch cutting deck is backed by a three-year limited lifetime warranty and has an MSRP beginning at $2,399. Homeowners interested in test riding a new Snapper 360Z can locate their nearest authorized Snapper dealer by visiting www.snapper.com .
About Briggs & Stratton Corporation: Briggs & Stratton Corporation (NYSE: BGG), headquartered in Milwaukee, Wisconsin, is focused on providing power to get work done and make people's lives better. Briggs & Stratton is the world's largest producer of gasoline engines for outdoor power equipment, and is a leading designer, manufacturer and marketer of power generation, pressure washers, lawn and garden, turf care and job site products through its Briggs & Stratton®, Simplicity®, Snapper®, Ferris®, Vanguard®, Allmand®, Billy Goat®, Murray®, Branco® and Victa® brands. Briggs & Stratton products are designed, manufactured, marketed and serviced in over 100 countries on six continents. For additional information, please visit www.basco.com and www.briggsandstratton.com .
CONTACT: Liz Dorland, Swanson Russell, 402.437.6066, lizd@swansonrussell.com , Web Site: https://www.briggsandstratton.com/na/en_us/home.html
