£10,000 reward offered to help catch thugs who attacked Second World War veteran aged 98 By
Peter Gouldstone remains in a critical condition following a robbery at his home in Enfield, north London .
His family released a picture of the former telephone engineer hooked up to a life-support machine in hospital, where he is receiving treatment for severe injuries – including two bleeds on the brain.
Police are yet to find those who attacked him during the violent break-in, which happened during a 20-hour window between 2pm on 5 November.
Mr Gouldstone was discovered by his son the following day.
Crimestoppers has offered the £10,000 reward for information that leads to the arrest and conviction of those responsible for the “horrific attack”, Scotland Yard said.
Detective Inspector Paul Ridley said: “Mr Gouldstone remains in a life-threatening and critical condition in hospital.
“He was left for dead in his own home, a place where he should feel safest. There is no way of knowing when he would have been discovered.
“Had it not been for a member of the public raising the alarm, I believe that Mr Gouldstone would have succumbed to his injuries.
“My investigation team has been working relentlessly to trace the individuals behind this horrific attack.”
The widowed pensioner worked on phone lines in Italy during the Second World War, and later joined the Post Office.
He has been retired for almost 40 years, according to his son, Simon Gouldstone.
The former civil servant, 67 – who found his father after being alerted to a possible disturbance at the property by neighbours – said: “As a member of the family I’m shocked, as a member of the human race I’m lost for words at man’s inhumanity to man I’m afraid.
“I don’t know how they can live with themselves. The sooner they’re locked up the better.”
As well as being assaulted, Mr Gouldstone – who has rarely been seen outside since his wife Joan died several years ago – also had a number of items stolen, including a black 26in Panasonic TV.
He has lived at the terraced house for more than six decades.
