Thousand Oaks shooter attended Cal State Northridge in 2016 Posted: Updated:
THOUSAND OAKS, Calif. (AP) - The Latest on the shooting at a Southern California bar that killed 12 people (all times local):
12:25 p.m.
California State University, Northridge, says in a statement the gunman in the Thousand Oaks mass shooting was once a student.
The university says 28-year-old Ian David Long last attended the university in 2016. The statement has no further details.
Ventura County Sheriff Geoff Dean identified Long as the gunman who killed 12 people at the Borderline Bar and Grill late Wednesday. The sheriff says Long also was found dead and is believed to have killed himself.
Long was also a former Marine and had been divorced.
Court records show he married in 2009, separated in 2011 and was divorced in 2013.
12:15 p.m.
"Sister Sister" actress Tamera Mowry-Housley and her husband say their 18-year-old niece was among those killed in the Southern California mass shooting.
The actress and her husband Adam Housley confirmed Thursday that Alaina Housely was killed in the shooting at Borderline Bar & Grill in the city of Thousand Oaks.
They say their "hearts are broken" and say they are "devastated that her life was cut short in this manner."
They called Alaina Housley "an incredible young woman with so much life ahead of her."
A suitemate of Housley at Pepperdine University said on Twitter earlier Thursday that Housely was among a group of women who went dancing at the bar and had not returned.
Adam Housley is a former Fox News correspondent.
11:45 a.m.
A 23-year-old man has been identified as one of the dozen people killed in the mass shooting at a Southern California bar.
California Lutheran University says in a statement that the family of recent graduate Justin Meek says he is among the dead.
A gunman attacked Borderline Bar and Grill in Thousand Oaks late Wednesday during a country music dance night.
Other victims identified earlier are 22-year-old Cody Coffman, whose father says he was about to join the Army, and Ventura County sheriff's Sgt. Ron Helus, who was shot multiple times in an exchange of gunfire with the attacker.
Authorities say the gunman, 28-year-old Ian David Long, also was found dead.
He is believed to have killed himself.
11:35 a.m.
Community leaders in Thousand Oaks, California, have established a fund to aid victims of the mass shooting that killed a dozen people at a country music dance event at a local bar.
Officials on Thursday announced the establishment of the Conejo Valley Victims Fund. It was launched with a $100,000 donation from the locally based Conrad N. Hilton Foundation and $250,000 from the Amgen biotechnology company, which is headquartered in Thousand Oaks.
The fund is being administered through the Ventura County Community Foundation and can be found on its website at https://vccf.org/
Officials say 100 percent of the funds donated will go to aid victims' families.
11:15 a.m.
A hearse carrying the body of a Southern California sheriff's deputy slain in a mass shooting has arrived at the Ventura County Medical Examiner's Office.
Thousands of people stood along the route or pulled over along U.S. 101 Thursday as a long motorcade escorted the body of Sgt. Ron Helus some 25 miles (40 kilometers) from a hospital in Thousand Oaks to the coroner's facility in the city of Ventura.
Law enforcement officers and firefighters saluted at attention and crowds of area residents gathered along streets. County helicopters flew overhead. Helus was shot multiple times as he and a California Highway Patrol officer exchanged gunfire with a man who attacked staff and patrons at a Thousand Oaks bar where a country music dance event was underway Wednesday night.
Helus and 11 other people were killed. The gunman also died and authorities believe he killed himself.
