More from Jeff Labine 1:48 PM EST
The Fort Saskatchewan Boys and Girls Club is looking for financial support to build its next site at SouthPointe School. Graphic Supplied A safe place for children and youth during the most vulnerable hours of the day
The Boys and Girls Club has been a part of the community and will be celebrating our 33 rd year of providing programs and services to thousands of children and youth in February 2019.
In the beginning, our programs focused on teens and over the years, it has evolved to include the addition of programs that welcomed elementary school-aged children.
In 2000, we built and moved into our new location which has allowed us the opportunity to expand our programs and include many more children and youth.
Over the years, our programs have grown to include Youth Programming (Youth Leadership, Youth Volunteering, Teen Drop In, Educational and Support Programs), Youth and Family Support (Individual and Family Counselling and Supported Referrals, Parenting Programs and Support Programs), Summer Adventure Camps and Programs, Mentoring Programs (In School and Community), Out of School Program (Before and After School), Youth Employment Strategy (Urban Street Grill, Youth Employment Program and Heartland Ford Career Café) and involvement in a variety of community special events.
For many children and youth, we have been a home away from home and a safe place to be. Lifelong relationships were created because our first generation participants are now having their children be a part of the Boys and Girls Club.
“Had I not participated in the Boys and Girls Club programs and connected with the kind adults that wrapped their arms around me, I would have chosen a less healthy path in life. I now have my children enrolled in a variety of the programs offered at the Boys and Girls Club,” said a former participant, who is now 40-years-old.
It’s not easy being a kid today; the problems they face are complex. The Boys and Girls Club has the privilege of offering the opportunities for children and youth to have positive and caring relationships with both peers and adults, the opportunity to build self- sufficiency in academic, social, emotional, and life skills while increasing independence and confidence to achieve their dreams.
The growing population of Fort Saskatchewan has increased the need for our programs and services. Our existing locations have reached capacity impacting how many children and youth we are able to serve each year. We have plans to build another site at the location of SouthPointe School. This addition will allow us to provide programs and services to more children and youth. We welcome your support with this project.
We have tremendous gratitude for the partnerships and collaborations we share with other community organizations, businesses, donors, funders, staff and volunteers. It has allowed us the opportunity to see thousands of children, youth and families walk through our doors and with this ongoing support the opportunity to see many more!
This monthly column was written and provided by Fort Saskatchewan Boys and Girls Club executive director, Wendy Serink.
