Upcoming political events in the Bay Area.
THURSDAY
Susan Rice: Former President Barack Obama’s national security adviser and U.N. ambassador discusses U.S. foreign policy priorities and national security interests. Sponsored by the World Affairs Council. $40 for nonmembers, $10 for students. 6:30-7:30 p.m., Marines Memorial Theater, 609 Sutter St., San Francisco. More information is here.
Digital privacy: Will Yoon, senior director of product counseling at Dropbox, discusses whether warrantless search and seizure of cell phone records violate the Fourth Amendment. Part of Rooftop Law School. Free. 5:30-7 p.m., Ironclad headquarters, 325 Fifth St., San Francisco. More information is here.
SUNDAY
Civil conversation: A Better Angels Skills Workshop to learn skills for having respectful conversations that clarify differences between politics among families and friends, search for common ground and affirm the importance of the relationship. Free. 1-3:30 p.m., Twin Towers United Methodist Church, 1411 Oak St., Alameda. More information is here.
Election analysis: East Bay Peace Action sponsors a gathering featuring Eric See presenting a post-election analysis. 2 p.m. at the Fred Weaver Residence Center, St. Paul’s Tower, 100 Bay Place, Oakland. More information is here.
Unite Against Hate: A week of programs, art, and community events centered on combatting hate violence begins in Castro Valley. Full schedule of events and other information is here.
MONDAY
Climate change meetup: Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory scientist Mark Levine presents an insider’s view of the science behind the latest International Panel on Climate Change special report, “Global Warming of 1.5°C.” $8. Sponsored by Climate Reality. Eric Quezada Center for Culture and Politics, 518 Valencia St., San Francisco. More information is here.
TUESDAY
Women in politics: San Francisco Supervisor Jane Kim, Close the Gap founder Mary Hughes, and Chronicle columnist Heather Knight join Oral History Center interviewer Amanda Tewes for a conversation about the challenges, successes, and history of women involved in local politics. Hosted by the Ruby. $10 for nonmembers. 6-8 p.m., 23rd and Bryant streets, San Francisco. More information is here.
Israel and U.S.: Avraham Burg, former interim president of Israel, speaks on “Israel’s complexities and the growing tension between American Jewry and Israel” at the Peninsula Jewish Community Center. $20. 7:30-9 p.m., 800 Foster City Blvd., Foster City. More information is here.
Climate zeroes: A discusssion on stabilizing the climate through a zero-carbon grid, zero-emission vehicles, zero net energy buildings and zero-waste manufacturing. Speakers include Kate Gordon, sustainability partner at Ridge-Lane LP; Hal Harvey, CEO of Energy Innovation; and Arun Majumdar, mechanical engineering professor and co-director of the Precourt Institute for Energy at Stanford University. $20 for Commonwealth Club members, $7 for students. 6:30-8 p.m., 110 Embarcadero, San Francisco. More information is here.
WEDNESDAY
Consumer protection: Discussion with David Vladeck, former director of the Federal Trade Commission’s Bureau of Consumer Protection under President Barack Obama. Topics include the future of consumer protection and antitrust law, unfair and deceptive acts and practices, and privacy and data security. Hosted by Civil Justice Research Initiative. Free. 12:55-2 p.m., Boalt Hall, Room 110, UC Berkeley. More information is here.
NOV. 15
Digital government: Code for America founder Jennifer Pahlka, California CIO Amy Tong and California Health and Human Services Agency Secretary Michael Wilkening discuss the future of digital government in California. $15. 5:30-7:30 p.m., Code for America, 155 Ninth St., San Francisco. More information is here.
NOV. 16
Higher education priorities: College Futures Foundation president Monica Lozano and Mark Baldassare, head of the Public Policy Institute of California, discuss the institute’s new higher education survey and priorities for the new governor. Free. 9-10 a.m., Bechtel Conference Center at PPIC, 500 Washington St., San Francisco. More information is here.
NOV. 19
Case against Trump: Bill Press, radio-show host and former chair of California Democratic Party, discusses the case against Trump at the Commonwealth Club. $25 for nonmembers, $10 for students. Noon-1 p.m., 110 Embarcadero, San Francisco. More information is here.
NOV. 27
Ginsburg biographer: Jane Sherron De Hart discusses her book “Ruth Bader Ginsburg: A Life.” $15. 7 p.m., Jewish Community Center of San Francisco, 3200 California St. More information is here.
NOV. 29
“Fake news”: Alexander Sängerlaub, project director of Misinformation in Digital Media leads a panel discussion on the terminology of “fake news” in a transnational framework and ways to check the spread of misinformation. Free. 6:30-9 p.m. at the Goethe-Institut San Francisco, 530 Bush St., No. 204. More information is here.
Palestinian rights: Benefit screening of “Imprisoning a Generation,” a documentary film that follows the stories of four young Palestinians who have been imprisoned under the Israeli military system. Film director Zelda Edmunds will give a presentation. Benefit for Middle East Children’s Alliance. Tickets are $15-$50. 7 p.m., Berkeley City College auditorium, 2050 Center St., Berkeley. More information is here.
To list an event, email Politics Editor Trapper Byrne at tbyrne@sfchronicle.com
