Football: Eadric was everywhere for RV in first-round playoff victory
After the Buena Regional High School football team’s 35-12 victory over Glassboro in the first round of the playoffs, coach Jonathan Caputo tweeted out "That's 5 for 51."
The reference is to senior linebacker and guard Riyaun Coleman , who suffered a fractured fibula in the Chiefs’ fourth game against Lindenwold., and wears No. 51. Buena is 5-0 since his injury, including the program’s first playoff win and playoff game in three years.
Caputo is hoping Buena can make it 6 and 7 for No. 51, including this week’s South Jersey Group 1 semifinal at Penns Grove , which would give the Chiefs just the second sectional championship in program history. That’s 5 for 51 — Coach Caputo (@Buenachiefs1) November 3, 2018
If fourth-seeded Buena does upset top-seeded Penns Grove in one of only two matchups in the state of undefeated teams this weekend and beats the winner of No. 3 Gateway vs. No. 2 Salem next week, Caputo said it’s possible Coleman could play again.
RELATED : Semifinal previews and picks
“It’s been huge (motivation),” admitted Caputo. “The is one of the best. … one of the top three kids I’ve coached in 25 years. He’s 5-foot-7, 185 pounds, the hardest-working kid. He’s respectful, coachable. You hear this from coaches all the time, but you would want your son to be like him. I would say that about him, he’s an awesome kid.
“It would probably have to be in the bowl game, but if there’s a chance for him to pad up again, we want to find a way.”
Buena is entering the postseason undefeated for the second time in five seasons, also reaching the Group 2 semifinal before falling to Haddonfield in 2014.
Because Buena was also Group 2 in 2015, reaching the semifinal, it received a challenging schedule against Group 2 and 3 schools the last scheduling cycle in 2016 and 2017. However, Buena dropped down to Group 1 the last two years and ended up playing teams like Highland, which moved up from Group 3 to Group 4.
While the Chiefs competed they barely missed the playoffs the last two years. This year, with a small-school schedule, Buena has proven it is one of the better Group 1 and 2 programs in South Jersey.
It defeated Pleasantville, a Group 2 semifinalist, 19-13, a few weeks ago.
“I went up to the NJSIAA meeting to hear the United playoff proposal when they were talking about changes and strength of schedule. … Under the current system we would have been in the playoffs the last two years,” said Caputo. “I felt like we were one of the top eight teams the last two years. But you use those things you go through and you take advantage of the opportunities when you get them.
“This is a different team. It’s probably the most team-oriented group we’ve had.”
Caputo knows the 9-0 Chiefs have their hands full with 10-0 Penns Grove, which suffered its last loss in the 2017 South Jersey Group 1 final against Paulsboro.
Buena will want to pound the ball with Jaden Roberts and Chris Doughty , while Penns Grove will strive for more balance and get the ball in the hands of all-state receiver Tyreke Brown .
“They are the one seed for a reason,” said Caputo. “A lot of things will have to go well, but I will go to battle with my kids against everybody. We’re competitors. We’re focusing on blocking and tackling, and they have some horses that don’t like to stay blocked. We’re in for a dogfight, the way Penns Grove plays football, but there’s a lot of dog in the Chiefs as well.
"We’re confident.We respect the hell out of them, but our objective is to go to the finals. If you don’t have that approach, you shouldn’t be in the playoffs. Somebody is going away with their only loss, that’s the tough thing about sports. We hope it’s not us. That was a great team in 2014, but we'd like a different ending this time.”
