WWI Centennial Commission hosts armistice centennial events throughout D.C. Posted: Updated:
This Veteran’s Day marks the 100 th anniversary of the WWI Armistice. The World War One Centennial Commission, which was created by an Act of Congress in 2013 will host a series of Armistice Centenary Events (ACE) throughout Washington D.C. from Thursday, November 8 through Sunday, November 11, 2018.
The ACE events will bring Washington D.C. together to learn, honor and commemorate the over 4 million American soldiers who went abroad to fight on behalf of America.
The events will also educate the public that there is currently no WWI Memorial in Washington D.C. A culmination of these events will take place on 11/11 with the Sacred Service interfaith experience at the Washington National Cathedral, where a national “Bells of Peace” tolling will commence. This highlighted moment will unite the entire country as historic landmarks, organizations and individuals nationwide pause to toll bells 21 times to honor our WWI veterans.
For a full schedule of events/to participate go to www.ww1cc.org
Highlights of the Armistice Centennial Events will include: The Nation Served: Wreath Laying Tribute to States and Territories – November 8, 2018 11:00 a.m. EST – Wreaths will be placed by representatives of all United States states and territories as a remembrance to all those who served during WWI. Robert Wilkie, United States Secretary of Veterans Affairs’ will be giving remarks. There will also be a performance by the United States Army’s “Pershing’s Own” Brass Quintet. Sacred Interfaith Service at the Washington National Cathedral – November 11, 2018 10:00 a.m. EST – On the 100 th anniversary of the WWI Armistice, government officials as well as the public are invited to an interfaith service at the Washington National Cathedral. Bells of Peace: A Remembrance – November 11, 2018 11 a.m. EST – During the Sacred Service, Admiral Michael Mullen (Ret.) will commence the nationwide Bells of Peace tolling – where individuals, communities and landmarks are invited to toll either a physical bell, or toll via an Apple/Android app 21 times to honor the American soldiers who fought abroad during WWI. The United States Navy and Marine Corps will participate along with New York’s Cathedral of St. John the Divine, Boston’s Old North Church, and the Philadelphia’s Liberty Bell will be an honorary landmark. Military and Veterans Salute – November 11, 2:00 p.m. EST – The public is invited to a “first look”– a tour and display of where the WWI Memorial will be built in Pershing Park. Throughout the afternoon there will be a performance by the 369 th Experience Band, a recreation of the 369 th Regimental Band, which was comprised of 65 African American and Puerto Rico soldiers who brought Jazz music to Europe. A conversation with Sabin Howard and Joe Weishaar, sculptor and designer of the World War I Memorial will take place, as well as a Royal Marine concert with British bagpipers.
