Wish list in hand, de Blasio savors new dynamic in Albany NEW YORK TIMES PUBLISHED: THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 8, 2018 AT 4:00 PM PREV A A
NEW YORK — For as long as Bill de Blasio has been mayor of New York City, his relationship with Albany, the state’s capital, has been somewhere between nonexistent and disastrous.
Time and again, the mayor has been stymied in nearly every attempt to move the city’s agenda through the state Legislature, with the Republican-led Senate — and, at times, Gov. Andrew Cuomo, a Democrat — in the way.
But with Democrats finally taking control of the state Senate in Tuesday’s election, de Blasio saw real opportunity, and in his exuberance, his mayoral cup overflowed with metaphor. “It’s a whole new ballgame,” he said, adding, “the center of gravity has shifted.”
The mayor, a second-term Democrat, was quick to announce the measures that he would like the Legislature, with both houses now in the hands of his party, to take up promptly in the new year.
His list included rent law reforms and other steps to protect or promote affordable housing; new sources of financing for the city’s subways and buses; education financing and extended mayoral control of schools; and changes to election laws that would make voting easier and remake the Board of Elections.
“The fact that we not only have a Democratic majority in the state Senate, but a resounding Democratic majority, is going to allow for a host of progress for the state and going to allow some really important initiatives to finally be acted on,” de Blasio said at his weekly news conference.
Still, even an all-Democratic Albany could present challenges to de Blasio, who has shown in the past that he is capable of overconfidence that leaves him vulnerable to overreaching and stumbling.
Central to the mayor’s success will be his relationship with Cuomo, who was re-elected to a third term Tuesday and remains the most powerful force in the state capital. The governor’s relationship with the mayor during their respective tenures has ranged from mildly unpleasant to downright nauseating.
On Wednesday, the mayor pooh-poohed any animus between the men, again insisting that the new Democratic power dynamic would help ease the tension, mentioning Assembly Speaker Carl Heastie and incoming state Senate Majority Leader Andrea Stewart-Cousins.
“The difference now is you’ve got, in the two leaders of the Legislature, two people who are devoted to making real change and who work well together,” the mayor said. “From my point of view, we’re going to be able to have a kind of dialogue we never had before.”
Then, perhaps wisely, he added a note of caution, saying, “Of course, these are still complex issues, and everything will take time.”
In an interview with The New York Times, Cuomo reeled off a number of measures he plans to support during the coming legislative session, which starts in January, but most seemed focused on state issues.
There were bound to be conflicts: de Blasio has repeatedly called for a new tax on high earners to fund various programs, and called for it again Wednesday; Cuomo, more fiscally conservative, has opposed it.
In campaigning, too, Cuomo had some Democratic candidates sign onto a nine-point plan that included making the “demand” that New York City “pay its fair share for” public transit programs.
Then, too, there is the lingering issue of Cuomo’s primary challenger, Cynthia Nixon, who is friends with de Blasio. The mayor didn’t officially take sides in the primary, but the legislative session could be the first test of whether Cuomo exercises his gold-medal skills in holding a grudge.
In a radio interview Wednesday, Cuomo described his relationship with de Blasio as complicated but functional. “I have my idea of what an effective Democratic progressive is; he has his idea of what it means to be a Democratic progressive,” the governor said on WVOX. “So it doesn’t mean we’re not friends. It doesn’t mean we can’t work on things together.”
Compromise, of course, is usually easier when members are of similar political persuasions, and if you peer closely, you could discern signs Wednesday of a détente on a congestion pricing proposal for the city, an idea Cuomo supports. De Blasio has been softening his public statements on congestion pricing in recent weeks, and on Wednesday he again said that it could be part a mixture of financing sources for the Metropolitan Transportation Authority.
De Blasio also said that the new dynamic in Albany could improve relations with Cuomo. “We’ve both said publicly and privately we want to try, in his new term, to do better at finding common ground, and I’m going to work on that consistently.”
The state Assembly has always been the friendliest terrain for de Blasio, with dozens of New York City-based Democrats, and likely will remain that way. Heastie has usually been viewed as his closest ally.
But the state Senate was a snake pit for the mayor, largely stemming from an attempt in 2014 by de Blasio to defeat Senate Republicans that backfired badly. Republicans won seats, and his aggressive fundraising tactics led to state and federal investigations that became a major distraction through part of his first term.
Senate Republicans subsequently tormented him whenever possible, blocking his initiatives or letting him turn slowly before they agreed to extend mayoral control of city schools (for much shorter periods than he desired).
On Wednesday, however, it was Senate Republicans who were hurting, looking at a vastly diminished caucus and the possibility of a long time in the wilderness. State Sen. Patrick M. Gallivan, one of only 23 Republicans who won Tuesday, worried that the new Democratic Albany would look like the last version, in 2009-10, when taxes went up.
Gallivan, who represents the Buffalo area, said he also worried that de Blasio and his fellow downstaters — including and most notably Cuomo, Heastie and Stewart-Cousins — would forget about upstate.
“I don’t think one-party rule anywhere is good for the state,” he said. Commenting rules: Stick to the topic of the article/letter/editorial. When responding to issues raised by other commenters, do not engage in personal attacks or name-calling.
