These Popular Holiday Spots Are Adding New Taxes For Tourists Scott Dylan November 8, 2018 You may need to be prepared to pay a little extra whether you’re headed to a sunny resort spot or a bustling city. Tourist spots that are growing in popularity need to find ways to balance out the impact of overtourism. Unfortunately, it means you could be slapped with new fees when you head to some hot spots around the world in 2019.
Which vacation spots will be more expensive to visit in 2019?
Croatia Croatia plans to raise accommodation taxes for visitors starting in 2019. The Baltic country has seen a huge increase in tourism among people looking to experience charming cities and beaches. Accommodation taxes will rise by 25 percent during the year’s peak travel season. Travelers coming from the United States don’t need to sweat over the tax increase. The increase will only represent a few cents in American currency.
New Zealand New Zealand is slapping visitors who arrive from major tourist destinations with a fee of roughly $23 starting next year. The new fee is a result of the growing demand for holidays in New Zealand. The number of annual visitors coming to this exciting country has actually grown by more than 1.2 million people in just the past five years alone. The increase in visitors means that New Zealand needs to get serious about upgrading its infrastructure and setting up systems that will make it possible to continue to welcome so many new people.
Barbados Barbados has decided to address a government deficit by taxing visitors. Guests staying at hotels located in this island nation will pay an extra $2.50 per night. In addition, Barbados introduced a tourism feel of $70 at the start of October.
Japan Japan is planning to collect fees when people are heading out of the country after visiting. A new departure tax is being charged to visitors when they leave Japan by air or sea. A new fee totaling about $9 will automatically be added to the price of all ship and air tickets beginning on Jan. 7 of next year. Japan plans to use the funds that are collected to upgrade airports and other tourist attractions. People who come to Japan can look forward to multilingual guides and standard Wi-Fi access on public transportation as a result of the tax.
