Complete Box Score »
Youkendu Pacius is the tallest player on the Elizabeth team and sometimes that comes in handy like it did on Thursday when his second half header gave the second seeded Minutemen a 2-0 lead and provided the margin of victory in a 2-1 win over top seeded Scotch Plains-Fanwood in the final of the North Jersey 2, Group 4 Tournament.
Pacius' goal was the second in a pair of goals scored only a minute apart in what turned out to be a wild second half of play.
Henry Chavez had given Elizabeth a 1-0 lead just over 11 minutes into the half when teammate Josser Amaya slipped behind a defender on the right side and dished up a centering pass to Chavez that he blasted into the net. Only a minute later Chavez would be launching a corner kick and that was when Pacius would get his chance.
Chavez' kick was dead on and Pacius used his height advantage to put his head on the ball and guide it into the corner of the net for what would be the winning goal.
"When I saw the ball come I imagined me and the goal, nobody in it and nobody on me" Pacius said of the score. "I closed my eyes and said 'Let's go.' Coach always says on corners, 'Find the big man.' and that's what (Chavez) did. We always do that in practice. Coach always tells us to attack the ball and that's what I did.
"There were supposed to be more goals. But 2-1, I'll take it. It's a win"
"He's a scorer. He smells the goal at all times," Elizabeth coach Jacques Gonzales said of Pacius. "He was right on the play and put that baby away in the back of the net."
Elizabeth's sudden offensive outburst came after a first half in which the Minutemen registered only a single shot on goal while Scotch Plains-Fanwood controlled the action down near the Elizabeth goal. Even still, Scotch Plains was only able to get three shots at the net. Both teams had goals nullified by infractions. The first, a scoring kick by Scotch Plains' Jonathan Koseoglu was negated due to an offside call while Mathew Giraldo 's score was ruled to have occurred after a push in the box.
"Our kids were advised to play good defense first in order to attack them," Gonzales said of the first half. "They are such a good team we had to keep our defensive composure. It was expressed to our kids to keep control of their two midfielders, the Ferrara brothers. Our kids were able to adjust to that and keep them close throughout the game.
"We knew if they were not going to be able to score early in the game, they were going to go into a panic mode. Our kids were able to adjust to that and start playing our game which is a very offensive game.
"They are one of the best programs in the state," Gonzales added of Scotch Plains. "Today was a perfect example of a Scotch Plains-Elizabeth game."
Key to the offensive vigor Elizabeth showed in the second half was the play of Amaya, who showed great speed and foot skills to drive the Minuteman attack.
"Josser is one of the leaders we have had throughout the season," Gonzales said of Amaya. "Today was his game. He was right on, especially in the second half. He was told, that since they play a three back flat in the back, to use the space with the speed that he has. He's a very hard kid to defend, especially in one on one situations."
"Coach told us it was our time to attack as much as we can," Amaya said of the second half outburst. "So that's what we did. We keep fighting until we get it. This is what we were working for. We lost three years in a row. This year we got it."
In a game that was often physical and, at times, included some back and forth words between the coaches, it was unthinkable that Scotch Plains would simply pack up shop after Elizabeth took the 2-0 lead. And they didn't.
With 22:10 left in the game Koseoglu drilled a penalty kick into the left side of the cage to bring the Raiders within a goal, 2-1. But try as they might, Scotch Plains was unable to make up the one goal deficit in spite of a series of threats, especially over the game's final five minutes, including a header off a corner kick that went wide as time expired.
