Home > Art & Music >“The King and I” Tickets now on Sale! “The King and I” Tickets now on Sale! BASED ON THE CRITICALLY ACCLAIMED
that was the WINNER OF FOUR 2015 TONY
including BEST REVIVAL OF A MUSICAL
WILL PREMIERE IN FORT LAUDERDALE AT THE BROWARD CENTER FOR THE PERFORMING ARTS NOVEMBER 20 – DECEMBER 2, 2018
Fort Lauderdale, FL – NETworks Presentations announces that the national tour of the Lincoln Center Theater Production of Rodgers & Hammerstein’s THE KING AND I , based on the 2015 Tony Award ®–winning Lincoln Center Theater Production, will make its Fort Lauderdale premiere at The Broward Center for the Performing Arts for 2 weeks, November 20 – December 2, 2018 as part of the Broadway in Fort Lauderdale series.
Tickets for Rodgers & Hammerstein’s THE KING AND I , are available at the Broward Center AutoNation Box Office, 201 SW Fifth Avenue, Fort Lauderdale, FL, 33312, browardcenter.org or call 954.462.0222. Orders for groups of ten (10) or more may be placed by calling 954.660.6307. Ticket prices start at $40.50*.
Angela Baumgardner
Angela Baumgardner will play Anna Leonowens and Pedro Ka’awaloa will play the King of Siam, with DeAnna Choi as Lady Thiang, Bern Tan as Kralahome, Paulina Yeung as Tuptim, Dongwoo Kang as Lun Tha, Timothy Matthew Flores as Prince Chulalongkorn, Hayden Bercy as Louis Leonowens and Stanton Morales as Captain Orton/Sir Edward Ramsey.
Pedro Kaawaloa
The ensemble includes Catrina Teruel Clark, Raymond Dimaano, Atsushi Eda, Cj Fernando, Jenna Ho, Masumi Iwai, Anjali Kanter, Akina Kitazawa, Keiji Kubo, Kylie Kuioka, Catherine Landeta, Jee Heng Liao, Linder Sutton, Tsubasa Ogawa, Soraya Patoonsittichai, Trevor Roderick, Richel Mari Ruiz, Pepita Salim, Annie Sherman, Kayla Rachel Teruel, Matheus Ting, Hiroko Uchino, Dax Valdes and Eliot Waldvogel.
One of Rodgers & Hammerstein’s finest works, THE KING AND I boasts a score that features such beloved classics as “Getting To Know You,” “I Whistle a Happy Tune,” “Hello Young Lovers,” “Shall We Dance” and “Something Wonderful.” Set in 1860’s Bangkok, the musical tells the story of the unconventional and tempestuous relationship that develops between the King of Siam and Anna Leonowens, a British schoolteacher whom the modernist King, in an imperialistic world, brings to Siam to teach his many wives and children.
In the words of Bartlett Sher, director of the 2015 Broadway production and the first national tour, “Great classics come back to us when we need them the most. In order to live up to the scale of its ambition, we have to go both backward and forward in time. It’s like having one foot in the past as deeply as we can, one foot in the present, and our eyes looking out as far ahead as we can to see how it resonates.”
Tony Award®–winning director Bartlett Sher was reunited for The King and I with the award-winning creative team from the Lincoln Center Theater productions of South Pacific and The Light in the Piazza . The creative team for this new tour includes direction by Shelley Butler, based on Sher’s original direction, featuring sets by Michael Yeargan (Tony Award® winner for South Pacific and The Light in the Piazza ), costumes by Catherine Zuber (seven-time Tony Award® winner, including The King and I ), lights by Donald Holder (Tony Award® winner for South Pacific and The Lion King ), sound by Scott Lehrer (Tony Award® winner for South Pacific ), musical supervision by Ted Sperling and casting by Jason Styres, CSA. Choreography is by Tony Award® winner Christopher Gattelli ( Newsies ), based on the original choreography by Jerome Robbins. The production features the musical’s original 1951 orchestrations by Robert Russell Bennet with dance and incidental music arranged by Trude Rittmann.
Tour director Shelley Butler says, “Now feels like the perfect time to bring forward this powerful story with its depiction of clashing cultures and its journey toward understanding. It is a great pleasure to helm the tour with a dynamic cast of 33 actors, including an array of international company members. It is an honor and a privilege to continue the vision of Bartlett Sher and the brilliant Lincoln Center Theater creative team.”
For more information, including the 2018–2019 touring schedule, please visit TheKingandITour.com
facebook.com/TheKingandIMusical
# # #
ANGELA BAUMGARDNER ( Anna Leonowens ) National tour debut! Regional: Mary Poppins (Winifred Banks), Peter Pan (Mrs. Darling), Beauty and the Beast (Mrs. Potts), Sister Act (Mary Martin-of-Tours), A Little Night Music , Merrily We Roll Along . Huge thanks to The King and I team, FireStarter Entertainment, Jason Styres, and my supportive family. angelabaumgardner.com
PEDRO KA’AWALOA ( King of Siam ) is honored to be bringing King Mongkut to life. He has a BA in Music from Harvard University. Regional: The Fantasticks ; South Pacific ; Evita ; The Addams Family ; The Producers; Jesus Christ Superstar ; White Christmas ; The Odd Couple, Female Version . MD/Conductor: Cabaret , First Date , Seussical , …Spelling Bee , The King and I , Les Misérables . Pedro is also a choir conductor, pianist, musician, teacher and composer. He is also a fitness and mindfulness enthusiast. Aloha and IMUA! pedrokaawaloa.com
*All programs, artists, ticket prices, availability, dates and times are subject to change without notice. Additional fees may apply. Visit www.browardcenter.org for up-to-date information, details and performance schedules.
The Broward Center for the Performing Arts
The Broward Center for the Performing Arts is one of America’s premier performing arts venues, consistently ranked among the top ten in the country. Presenting more than 700 performances each year to more than 700,000 patrons, the Center showcases a wide range of exciting cultural programming and events, and offers one of the largest arts-in-education programs in the United States, serving more than 150,000 students annually. In 2007, the Broward Center was named the Cultural Embassy of Broward County in recognition of its success in linking cultural activity with the region’s economic development.
The Broward Performing Arts Foundation, Inc. receives and maintains funds to sustain, develop, and secure the future of the Broward Center. The Broward Center for the Performing Arts is located in the Riverwalk Arts & Entertainment District at 201 SW Fifth Ave. in Fort Lauderdale. For more information, visit www.BrowardCenter.org .
BROADWAY ACROSS AMERICA
Broadway Across America (BAA) is part of The John Gore Organization family of companies, which includes Broadway.com, The Broadway Channel, BroadwayBox.com and Group Sales Box Office. Led by 13-time Tony-winning theater producer John Gore (Owner & CEO), BAA is the foremost presenter of first-class touring productions in North America, operating in 44 markets with over 400,000 subscribers. Presentations include Disney’s The Lion King, Wicked, The Book of Mormon, The Phantom of the Opera and Hamilton. Current and past productions include The Band’s Visit, Beautiful, Cats, Chicago, Dear Evan Hansen, Hairspray, Mean Girls, The Producers and Waitress.
The John Gore Organization is the leading developer, producer, distributor and marketer of Broadway theatre worldwide. Under the leadership of 13-time Tony-winning theater producer and owner John Gore, its family of companies includes Broadway Across America, Broadway.com, The Broadway Channel, BroadwayBox.com, and Group Sales Box Office. The company presents shows in 44 cities across North America as well as on Broadway, Off-Broadway, London’s West End, Japan, and China. It has won Tony Awards in every producing category as well as numerous other Drama League, Drama Desk and Olivier awards.
Florida Theatrical Association – the non-profit presenter of Broadway in Orlando, Fort Lauderdale and Miami – was founded with the charge of educating and developing new theater audiences and encouraging and preserving the presentation of touring Broadway theater. Since 1989 Florida Theatrical Association has presented over 1,050 broadway performances and distributed over $1.6 million in scholarships and grants to arts organizations across the state of Florida.
Bank of America Corporate Philanthropy
At Bank of America, our focus on Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) factors is critical to fulfilling our purpose of helping make people’s financial lives better. Our commitment to growing our business responsibly is embedded in every aspect of our company. It is demonstrated in the inclusive and supportive workplace we create for our employees, the responsible products and services we offer our customers, and the impact we make around the world in helping local economies thrive. An important part of this work is forming strong partnerships with nonprofits and advocate groups, such as community and environmental organizations, in order to bring together our collective networks and expertise to achieve greater impact. Learn more at www.bankofamerica.com/about , and connect with us on Twitter at @BofA_News .
