Five of the best things to do in and around Rugby in the next seven days Timothy West Published: 16:01 Thursday 08 November 2018 Share this article Music, theatre, art, comedy - there's plenty going on...
1 MUSIC, ART AND DRAMA First World War Armistice Festival, November 8 to 11 A collection of world-class performances and community events inspired by the First World War takes place in Rugby, organised by Fiona Sharp, co-director of The Wheels on Debussy, which specialises in cultural events for children. It begins with Be Brave and Come Home Safe at the Temple Speech Room on November 8. A story of love and hope told in drama, song and dance, audiences are invited to come in costume and travel back in time as performers bring November 1918 to life. Other events include Black Dog: The Dreams of Paul Nash, a compelling live graphic novel/performed exhibition by international artist and illustrator Dave McKean, performed at the Macready Theatre on November 9 and 10. There will also be a children’s First World War art exhibition at The Barn in Houlton, poetry performances at CV22 on November 17 and a concert featuring music by Elgar, Stravinsky, Ravel, Irving Berlin and more at CV22 on November 16. Details: thewheelsondebussy.com
2 MUSIC The Armed Man: A Mass for Peace, Warwick Arts Centre, November 9 Armonico Consort with its symphony orchestra and 450 young voices from its AC Academy choirs are joining together with renowned actor Timothy West for an inspiring and reflective evening to mark the centenary of the First World War Armistice. Karl Jenkins’ The Armed Man: A Mass For Peace, a firm favourite with Classic FM listeners and choral societies alike, it will be performed by the choir, orchestra and 450 local children. Interspersed throughout the evening, star of stage and screen, actor Timothy West will read letters home, tales from the trenches, poetry, passages from diaries and extracts from the Wipers Times, the satirical newspaper created by soldiers in the war. Details: warwickartscentre.co.uk
3 MUSIC Benjamin Britten’s War Requiem, Coventry Cathedral, November 14 The internationally renowned Royal Philharmonic Orchestra will perform Benjamin Britten’s War Requiem – 78 years to the day since bombs fell and destroyed the original St Michael’s Cathedral. Commissioned for the consecration of the new cathedral in 1962, the choral masterpiece is considered one of Britten’s greatest works and is regularly performed worldwide. This year also marks 100 years since the Diocese of Coventry was formed and 100 years since the death of war poet Wilfred Owen, whose words are woven with the mass. Details: plumb-line2018.co.uk
4 THEATRE Rebus: Long Shadows, Royal and Derngate, Northampton, until November 10 Ian Rankin’s Inspector Rebus has become a legend of crime fiction. Here he’s played by Charles Lawson, known to millions as Coronation Street’s Jim McDonald. Details: royalandderngate.co.uk
5 COMEDY Zoe Lyons – Entry Level Human, Royal and Derngate, Northampton, November 9 She’s a regular on Mock The Week and a much-loved figure on Live At The Apollo. But despite her success, she wonders what she’s doing with her life. Here, she explains why. Details: royalandderngate.co.uk
